
]° 6  ∞dZ» b317 & !b1300                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
b1300                                                                                        
!(b17 & b9998) 
b9998 
b17 
b35 
b18 
b36 
b19 
b37 
b20 
b38 
b21 
b39 
b22 
b40 
b23 
b41 
b319 & !b320 
b320 
b321 & !b1301 
b1301 
(b321 | b1300) & !b284 
b284 
b1301 & !b1302 
b1302 
b1302 & !b1303 
b1303 
b1303 & !b1304 
b1304 
b1304 & !b1305 
b1305 
b280 & !b1301 
b1301 
b279 & !b1306 
b1306 
b1306 & !b1307 
b1307 
b1307 & !b1308 
b1308 
b1308 & !b1309 
b1309 
b322 & !b324 
b324 
b324 & !b325 
b325 
b325 & !b326 
b326 
b326 & !b327 
b327 
b512 & !b513 
b513 
b130 & !b152 
b152 
b152 & !b153 
b153 
b42 
!b4000 
b4000 
b199 & !(b750 | b749) b749) 
b750 
!b750 b749 
b751 & !(b752 | b753) 
b753 
b752 & !b753 
b753 
!(b6030 | b6031) & !b333 
b6000 b6030 
!b6000 !b6030 
!(b6030 | b6031) & !b333 
b6001 b6030 
!b6001 !b6030 
!(b6030 | b6031) & !b333 
b6002 b6030 
!b6002 !b6030        
!(b6030 | b6031) & !b333        
b6003 b6030                         
!b6003 !b6030                            
!(b6030 | b6031) & !b333                    
b6017 b6030                                 
!b6017 !b6030                                 
!(b6029 | b6031) & !b333 
b6004 b6029 
!b6004 !b6029 
!(b6029 | b6031) & !b333 
b6005 b6029 
!b6005 !b6029 
!(b6029 | b6031) & !b333 
b6007 b6029 
!b6007 !b6029 
!(b6029 | b6031) & !b333                                         
b6006 b6029                                              
!b6003 !b6029                                         
!(b6029 | b6030) & (b6006 & !b333)                                                                  
R(b6008 b6009)                                                                    
b6008 & !b333 
!b6008 
b6009 & !b333 
!b6009 
!((b6029 | b6030) | b333) & (b6005 | b6012)                                  
b6010 
!b6010 
!(b6029 | b6030) & (b6004 & !b333)                                 
b6011 
!b6011 
!(b6029 | b6030) & (b6002 & !b333) 
b6012 
!b6012 
!(b6029 | b6030) & (b6000 & !b333)                 
b6013 
!b6013 
!(b6029 | b6030) & (b6013 & !b333)                                                                
b6014 
!b6014 
!(b6029 | b6030) & (b6007 & !b333)                                                                          
b6015 
!b6015 
!(b6029 | b6031) & !b333 
b6016 
!b6016 
!(b6029 | b6030) & (b6017 & !b333)                              
b6018 
!b6018 
b6011 & !b333 
b6019 
!b6019 
(b6012 & b6010) & !b333 
b6020 
!b6020 
b6002 & !b333 
b6032 
!b6032 
!b6031 & !b333 
b6021 
!b6021 
!b6031 & !b333 
b6022 
!b6022 
b6016 & !(b6028 | b333) 
b6023 
!b6023 
b6008 & !b333 
b6024 
!b6024 
b6007 & !b333 
b6025 
!b6025 
b6008 & !b333 
b6026 
!b6026 
b6008 & !b333 
b6027 
!b6027 
b6016 & !(b6023 | b333) 
b6028 
!b6028 
!b6031 & !b332 
b6033 
!b6033 
b6033 & !b332 
b6034 
!b6034 
(b511 & !b341) & !(b50 
b341 
b6100 
!b6100 
b6200 
!b6200 
b6101 
!b6101 
b6201 
!b6201 
b6102 
!b6102 
b6202 
!b6202 
b6103 
!b6103 
b6203 
!b6203 
b6104 
!b6104 
b6204 
!b6204 
b6105 
!b6105 
b6205 
!b6205 
b6106 
!b6106 
b6206 
!b6206 
(b279 | b130) & !b6300 
b6300 
d2d b6300 & !b6301 
b6301 
(b353 & !b6302 
b6302 
b96 
b850 & !b851 
b851 
b9011 & o358 
d358 R(g374 g261) 
!b9011 
b9012 & o359 
d359 g375 
!b9012 
b9013 & o360 
d360 g376 
!b9013 b9014 
b9014 & o376 
d376 g377 
!b9014 b9015 
b9015 & o377 
d377 g378 
!b9015 
(b237 & b850) &!b851 
b851 
(b237 & b851) &!b852 
b852 
b609 & !b610 
b610 
b436 & !b437 
b437 
b435 & !b438 
b438 
b439 & !b437 
b437 
b443 & !b444 
b444 
b445 & !b446 
b446 
b450 
G342 
b170 
!b170 
b166 & !b167 
b167 
b168 & !b169 
b169 
b511 & !b179 
b179 
b8338 
!b8338 
b8444 
!b8444 
b7780 
!b7780 
b201 & !b3789 
b3789 
b217 & !b5999 
b5999 
ˇˇ b6666 
!b6666 
b8888 & !b8889 
b8889 
b8890 & !b8891 
b8891 
b8892 & !b8893 
b8893 
b8894 & !b8895 
b8895 
b8896 & !b8897 
b8897 
b8898 & !b8899 
b8899 
b8900 & !b8901 
b8901 
b8902 & !b8903 
b8903 
b8904 & !b8905 
b8905 
b8906 & !b8907 
b8907 
b8908 & !b8909 
b8909 
b8910 & !b8911 
b8911 
b9333 & !b9334 
9334 
b9334 
b33 
b34 
b47 
b48 
µEarth, via the Kane band, named after its designer Omata Kane, is still the center for all activity in the core worlds.  Most ship keels are laid here, the Federation has its seat of government here, and it is, of course, a tourist Mecca because it is the homeworld of humanity.  It is said that all roads lead to Sol, and it is literally true, as the old Council Hypergate system originated here.  The Kane band houses most of Earth's serious shipyard activity.  There are no greater shipyards anywhere in known space; in fact, Sigma Shipyards actually owns 62% of the band surface.  The Moon has taken a back seat, and has been strip-mined for centuries.                                       lReflex-ion is a planetologist's dream, a world that looks destined to become an M-class planet which is in its early stages of formation.  Of course this world is still uninhabitable, but the University of Misfire maintains a small research station here to study of the processes that go into the creation of an M-class planet.                                        %                                       %                                       ùOne of many metallic moons scattered across the galaxy.  No air, few resources and no nightclubs.  Nice place to retire.                                       ™Spacedock II is the headquarters for the Federation Navy's logistics department.  The base is also utilized as a secondary repair and outfitting facility with the shipyards on the Kane Band around Earth being primary.  Materials and parts produced on Viking below are shipped up and assembled on base.  However, the primary purpose of this base is to provide a home for the people who have to keep track of the Federation military on a day-to-day basis.  An occasional Auroran skirmish keeps the pilots and gunners of Spacedock II on their toes, as the Auroran commanders see Spacedock II as a potential "weak point" along the Federation border.                                       ;According to myth, when President Nesre retired from public life, he settled on the first planet colonized under his administration, New Babylon.  Located in the Nesre Primus system, New Babylon has always been the home of the Federation elite.  Nesre himself was the exception to the New Babylonian rule, living in modest surroundings after his term of office, and people today still take pride in living on the same planet where the greatest hero of the Colonial Council ended his days.  There are any number of hawkers and street guides who will tell you their theories about his assassination, or show you the "location" of his grave, but most are obviously implausible.  The real location of his final resting place has been lost in the growth of seven hundred years of civilization...                                       4UHP-0474 was used to test the first generation of biogenic weapons that the Federation produced.  The planet was then sterilized by the use of super-high-yield protonic weapons.  The background radiation will make this planet uninhabitable for tens of thousands of years.                                       ªSpacedock III is smack-bang in the middle of one of the largest areas of ionic interference in the known galaxy.  To make matters worse, it's on the vital southern border that the Federation shares with the Auroran Empire.  Spacedock III has seen an enormous amount of action in the years since it was commissioned, and has recently been upgraded to hold the latest station-class blaster cannons.  Ingress and egress from the station are much more difficult than is normal for this model of Federation Battlestation, due to the ion storms that regularly sweep this area of space, and also because of security procedures designed to weed out Auroran infiltrators.                                       ßNamed for the legendary woman behind the design of the Hypergate system, Omata Kane, Port Kane was the hub of all traffic to the galactic west of the old Colonial Council.  The Polaris now control much of the area to the east of the Federation that used to be in the hands of the Colonial Council, due to the slow withdrawal of the Council into the core worlds during the collapse.  Port Kane now occupies the vital intersection between the Auroran Empire, the Polaris and the Federation.  What little trade and diplomacy is conducted between these three governments occurs here.  Port Kane also holds the dubious distinction of being the furthest Primary system from the Federation core worlds.  It is something of a backwater, but it's cosmopolitan enough to have good port services, full of decent outfitters.  It's also the gateway to many a "specialist" transaction, if you know where to look.                                       ØA paradise world, this is where all retirees from the Federation's military and intelligence communities reside.  While New Babylon in the Nesre Primus system is the planet that every civilian aspires to live on, New England is where all those who strive to protect the Federation from all enemies, inside and out, hope to end their days.  Its closeness to Sol enables these former service-men and women, who have made their home here, to keep up to date with all the news and events affecting the Federation they love and its surroundings.  It also enables the Federation to call upon their many years of wisdom and experience in times of emergency.                                       ÚDuring the early years of colonization some of the troubled youth from a strife-torn province of Earth decided that they wished to leave.  After many years of struggle, they made their home here. They decided that they wanted to leave behind everything they had grown up with, and slowly they, and their descendants, evolved a peaceful rural society. They have become an artistic, cultured, and  hospitable people, but despite this remember that this world was colonized by people who had been forced to fight their entire lives to survive.  Their skills have been passed down to the Wild Geese, perhaps the single toughest mercenary unit in known space, known for their fierce independence and near-suicidal bravery.                                       Unlike its namesake, Las Vegas is one of the more prudish worlds in Federation space.  Home to the Krim-Hwa religious organization, this cult is a fusion of many old Earth religions.  This has created a culture of gentle, peace-loving people who spread their faith throughout the galaxy like the ivy winds its way through the hedgerow.  Krim-Hwa monks are welcome anywhere in Federation space, where they minister to the sick and dying, and do charitable works.  Led by His Eminence Cardinal Feroque deIgni, Krim-Hwa has maintained good relations with all other major powers in the galaxy even through some of the more turbulent times it has seen.  Las Vegas is a farming colony, producing a significant fraction of the wheat crop of the Federation.                                       INeo New York was a flourishing Colonial Council colony until the crettic plague destroyed all life here.  The atmosphere is a now a poisonous shell of its former self, containing mostly methane and variants thereof.  Some remnants of the plague virus survive on the methane and sulphur compounds.  You can feel the heat through your bio-suit, and the sludge squishes under your feet as you walk through the deserted streets of the spaceport.  There is nothing of worth here, and even if there was it would never pass through your ship's biofilters.                                       »Spacedock IV is the gateway to New Babylon.  Most passenger ferries destined for the Nesre Primus system dock here instead of the blue-green planet below.  Inter-orbital shuttles and cargo drones account for 90% of the traffic to and from Spacedock IV and New Babylon, and merchants usually have their head offices here rather than groundside.  The spaceport itself is very well maintained, but it is obviously an old station, one of the first of the Federation style to be built.  Regularly upgraded, it performs a vital role in housing the military barracks for this sector, supplying patrols for the outlying systems in an attempt to weed out pirates and rebel insurgents.                                       ÆHargen is a young planet in geological terms.  Its crust is still molten in many places, and volcanoes and earthquakes bring many valuable minerals to the molten surface of this world, via magma currents, and the mining here has been profitable for the small concerns that operate on this rugged world.  Ironically, Hargen teems with vegetative life, however, and the atmosphere is quite breathable.  Many of the plants here have remarkable properties (due to the strains of living in such a place), and there are many farmers who sell rare crops to buyers across the galaxy.  Medical companies in particular order many kilotons of produce per year.                                       REarly explorers stumbled across this rare jewel of a world during the early stages of Council expansion.  They named it Xyon, after the Krim-Hwa god of peace and tranquillity.  Xyon produces the lion's share of bioregenerative medicines for the Federation, which are refined via industrial catalyst from the plankton that live in Xyon's surface spanning ocean.  There are some signs of prior habitation as well, and domes of plasticized water can be found dotted on the surface of Xyon near the poles.  Old Council records reveal the minutes of a session of the Circle of Ministers where one of the Vell-os representatives described the travels of her ancestors across the disc of the galaxy to find a new home.  She speculated that Xyon may have been a stepping stone on the long road to their homeworld, Vellos.                                       •Both Sirius Prime and its binary partner Sirius II orbit the quaternary star system Sirius.  As a result of exposure to differing levels of radiation of various wavelengths (depending of the positions of the suns), Sirius Prime has developed life forms that have very heavy duty radiation shielding as part of their armored carapaces.  The Sirian Monkdillo, for example, has a greater ability to block theta radiation than the hull armor of a Federation Destroyer.  Some of the Federation's best minds have been studying the Monkdillo and its fellow inhabitants for many years, but have yet to unlock the secrets of their shielding methods.                                       ·Sirius II came off second-best in the cosmic game of life, and never developed an atmosphere capable of stopping enough radiation to allow life to begin.  It does, however, contain many lanthanides and actinides in its crust, and has been heavily strip-mined since its discovery.  Life is harsh here, and the fatality rate for miners is very high.  Death usually comes from radiation exposure, or exposure to the unstable heavy metals mined here.  The Krim-Hwa maintain a monastery here on Sirius II, where they dare the elements in harsh self-imposed penance, or as a test of faith for initiates.  Other than the monks, who are called here by faith, or the miners, who are called here by money, nobody comes here by choice. Sirius II also serves as a processing plant for the shells of the Monkdillo.  The monks (after whom the animal is named) lovingly extract the shells from the Monkdillos after moulting season, similar to sheep shearing on old Earth.                                       ¶Diva is right on the edge of civilized space.  It borders on both the Auroran Empire and the navigational hazards of the wastes of the Vell-os wars.  Despite this, it is a useful stopover on the way to South Manchester.  Diva's many beautiful mineral outcroppings make it one of the wonders of the Federation, and the tourist season supplements what was once a flourishing trade with the western edge of the Colonial Council.  Only the occasional Auroran raid stops people from flocking to Diva to take up more permanent residence.  During these times the citizens of Diva shut themselves off from the rest of space and refuse most visitors.                                        Simpson is home to a number of small-time ship outfitters who maintain the vessels of the small number of prospectors (and occasional pirate) who roam the northern edges of the Federation and beyond.  It is known for its somewhat shady deals, and is tolerated by the Federation authorities, who usually give it a wide berth.  Many a criminal on the run can be found here, and bounty hunters number many among the populace.  Life is cheap here, and friends will betray friends for the price of another drink.                                       íThe Federation developed dome city technology as the old Council worlds started to become more and more polluted.  Menin was the site of the first test of the dome tech, and now it's a scientific outpost.  Federation patrols are regular in this system, and this ensures an uninterrupted chain of supplies to the asteroid, which is totally dependent on help from the outside world.  Many ship upgrades can be found here for reasonable prices.  The crowd of scientists and traders that fill the main marketplace are the typical mix of Federation civilians, although military personnel on leave can also be seen on occasion.                                       WSD5's primary task is to supply and maintain a large Federation armada under the command of Admiral Raczak. Surviving a tour of duty in Raczak's Roughnecks almost always ensures an operational command posting elsewhere.  The Roughnecks have a long and proud tradition of producing the hardest and most capable veterans of any combat unit, due to the near-continuous action that the armada sees. It is hardly worthy of note that the Roughnecks have the greatest attrition rate of any operational Federation unit.  There seems to be a bone of contention between Admiral Raczak and the Wild Geese stationed on SD6, but only the closest associates of the Admiral seem to ken the reason why.  However, historians have noted that Raczak's report following the Battle of Kerella doesn't paint the mercenaries in a good light.                                       âTau Prime is probably best known for its sentient marine mammals.  Called 'knup-knups' in their own tongue, they have never progressed beyond simple tool use, but they will continue to be allowed to progress at their own rate under the watchful eye of the Federation Scientific Corps. The primary task of the corps is to observe, not intervene.  The knup-knup life cycle, coupled with their mating for life, has kept the knup-knup population relatively small.  While not usually aggressive, during mating season they can be territorial.  Base personnel are advised to swim between the flags during these periods.                                       &In stark contrast to the aquatic bounty of Tau Prime, Tau II is a rock.  Battered almost continually by fierce moonquakes, the popular holovid sport "Niarr!!(r) XTreem(tm) Rocket-boarding" is broadcast live from this moon to an audience estimated to be in the billions.  In this sport, dare-devils strap their feet into high velocity rocket sleds, and attempt to survive the twisting circuit of canyons, billiard-table smooth plateaus and death-defying jumps to collect big cash prizes.  Participants in this sport are considered by connoisseurs to be veterans after a mere three races.  The prize money and title of "Niarr!!(r) Widowmaker(tm)" are often enough to convince the title-holder to retire to a life of luxury on a much, much more tectonically stable planet.                                        %                                      oSpacedock 6 is the home-away-from-home of New Ireland's most successful export: the Wild Geese.  This mercenary unit has been stationed on SD6 for many years now as a memorial to the largest fleet engagement of recent history.  An Auroran armada engaged a Federation task-force led by then-Commander Raczak,  which was nearly wiped out but for the timely intervention of a small group of Wild Geese, who all but single-handedly neutralized the Auroran threat, but at massive cost to themselves; of the twelve ships committed to the battle, only two managed to limp back to SD6.  The commander of the Wild Geese was quoted as saying "Today, we saved Raczak's reputation, and truly does he owe all future glories to us."  This has been a long-standing bone of contention between the group and the Admiral, which has almost led to open conflict.                                       ÚTrusa has been mined nearly continuously for the last 900 years for its many and varied mineral deposits, but has now reached the end of its productive years.  What remains behind now is only a shadow of the thriving mining communities that existed here even two decades ago.  Groups of tourists travel here to view the still-existing examples of early Colonial Council mining technology that remain perfectly preserved in the near vacuum of Trusa's atmosphere.                                       `Once a thriving ore-refining station, the decline of Sirrusa has mirrored that of Trusa, the planet it orbits.  As the mineral deposits dried up, the need for an ore-refining station disappeared as well, and the inhabitants left for more economically viable climes.  In an effort to turn this station into something vaguely profitable, the few remaining 'old salts' have opened the old outfits area and will take anything off your hands.  They do not actually have anything to sell, but they flog off some of the scrap they get their hands on to various scrap dealers, and have even managed to make a bit of money by selling interesting bits of equipment to large weapons corporation so they can pull them apart to see how they work.  If you have anything that you just want to get rid of, feel free to try and sell it to them.                                       ;Viking is a mineral- and ore-rich world, and has been mined heavily, leaving a once picturesque planet polluted and overcast.  Many of the ores and minerals mined here are shipped up to SD2 in orbit, and taken to various parts of the Federation to be used in the production of the numerous parts and equipment required by the Federation Navy.   The contract was given to Hal Corp, a Federation-owned company, but the mining operation is highly successful, and any questions of nepotism have been answered by their productivity levels.                                       Mars was the first attempt by mankind to terraform a planet. Scientists sent by the Earth Government (the predecessor to the  Colonial Council) tried to make Mars more habitable.  They failed.  In the past 850 years there have been countless attempts to rectify the damage caused by the toxin-producing algae introduced by those original scientists, but even now Mars is only mildly habitable, and breathmasks are still required in most areas as most of the planet is still covered by this organism.                                        %                                      ≤Europa is virtually uninhabited, with only a token military presence with a more ceremonial role than anything else.  Originally, the military garrison was placed here to be an early warning post in the years immediately preceding the creation of the Colonial Council.  Since then, the base was reactivated during the 'dark ages' to allow the inhabitants of Earth a little time to prepare for battle.  However, over the last few centuries, the military presence on Europa has been downgraded and is now viewed as a final posting for decorated veterans from the Federation/Auroran border trying to fill out their time in relative comfort before retiring.                                       ´This sky mining station, owned by the independent weapons manufacturer Pyrogenesis, mines some rare gases from the upper reaches of Nesre Secundus IV which will be used in the production of their exotic weaponry.  The chemicals used in the creation of blaster 'bolts' are easily produced from the upper atmosphere of the gas giant, and Pyrogenesis requires a constant supply of these gases.                                       WDue to interference from the high concentrations of helium and xenon, as well as the highly mountainous terrain, Alt is used by many pirates as a way of losing Federation pursuit before heading out of Federation controlled space for the relative safety of the lawless region of space to the Galactic North.                                       òThriving on an illegal trade of many goods, Altia is a quick one-stop shop for the more shady side of Federation life.  Most things can be bought (or stolen) here, and the populace is rarely constant.  If a pirate has stolen a shipment of goods from you, then chances are it will end up here.  A more insidious warren of backroom deals (or stabbings) cannot be found anywhere in Federation controlled space.  The streets are inhabited with a curious mix of beggars, thieves, pirates, corrupt policemen and 'legitimate' businessmen, who for the most part survive with only the minimum of bloodshed required.  Nobody wants a war.                                       ÅSnowmelt is the second-largest gathering of humanity in the Federation behind Earth itself (including the Kane Band).  The planet itself is extremely cold.  Most of the population is concentrated in a thousand mile wide strip along the equator where temperatures stay within 35 degrees of zero.  Outside of this, the temperatures decrease rapidly to the poles, where the average temperature is in the region of -200 degrees Celsius.  Snowmelt seems to lack any major natural resources.  However, due to the ease of building habitable quarters by hollowing out the ice, the population exceeds ten billion.                                       Most of the wealth of the Fomalhaut system is generated by the mines of Gem.  This planet has the richest veins of rare earths and minerals in known space.  The workers are nearly all young men and women who feel trapped living on Snowmelt and are trying to make enough money so that they can leave the Fomalhaut system and travel to virtually anywhere else in the Federation; they don't really care.  This trend has worried officials and bureaucrats on Snowmelt, who have instigated the 'Gem is truly outrageous' campaign in order to discourage youth from leaving, and robbing them of their workforce.                                       ÀFermia has never been colonized.  Although its atmosphere is rich in argon and other noble gases, its turbulence means that harvesting requires a great deal of time and money.  Only Boral, a relatively small independent mining company, operates here, and even then it only employs small-time prospectors who are foolish enough to brave Fermia's hostile atmosphere in order to make a few easy credits, 'no-questions-asked'.                                       ¥Boral I is the headquarters of Boral Mining Corp.  It is here that all the noble gases harvested from Fermia's atmosphere by the small army of prospectors employed by the company are processed and refined.  So far Boral has survived in the fiercely competitive universe of commerce by staying small enough that they remain beneath the notice of any of the larger, more professional mining companies.                                        %                                       %                                      Haven's surface is totally covered by water.  The closest point that the crust comes to the surface of the ocean is two kilometers, and so the people of Haven have developed a civilization that has nothing to do with dry land.  They live most of their lives in modular submarine habitats that can link together to form larger cities, and harvest the plankton and krill that abound in the warm waters.  They also have extremely potent weapons on their subs; they dislike outsiders intensely.                                       Merrol is the only planet in Federation space to be in open rebellion.  The Federation describes this planet as a breakaway being held by 'pirates,' and has instituted a blockade for 'the duration of the current emergency.'  Meanwhile, Merrol is quite self-sufficient.  It's also the central shipyards for the Rebellion, where purchased, stolen and captured ships are taken to be refitted for active duty.  Many of the ships sustain their heaviest damage coming through the blockade above the planet.                                       Spica is an uninviting world that has a thick methane atmosphere.  As you look out across the liquid ammonia pools and see the frozen metal caps of the mountains, you wonder how long it will be before the Federation strip-mines this planet.                                        %                                       ÕChlorine gas whips past the visor of your biosuit as you clamber over rocks made of silicates and metals.  You seriously hope you don't accidentally puncture your suit.                                       Georgia was settled quite early in the first great expansion of the Colonial Council.  The people who came here were mostly sponsored by the now-ancient Russian Federation, a constitutional construct by this stage, but one much loved by the people within its borders.  Most of Georgia's people are therefore Baltic and Slav in origin, and don't mind the planet's cold moods.  Georgia is heavily populated for a Federation planet, and to hail from this planet is seen as a sign of impeccable breeding.                                        %                                      2The world of Syracuse is a snapshot of the state of the Federation.  It's a bustling progressive world hovering on the brink of overpopulation.  Heavy industrialization has caused many environmental disasters, but the agencies charged with cleaning up do a fairly good job of hiding the mess.  Not exactly a refuge of the rich and famous.  Syracuse is a high-tech world on the surface, and low-tech when you start to get into the slums.  Don't wander too far, or look like you have money.  Some of these people are desperate.                                        %                                      ûWater is a precious commodity in the galaxy at large.  Carbon-based life cannot survive without it, and liquid water is in short supply.  Tidal exports water to many planets in the Federation and beyond, and even has a contract to supply the planet Dani within the Auroran Empire.  The only residents of this world are either in the water trade, or run aquaculture farms.  Tidal also has a small tourist industry visiting the many reefs and other underwater features.  As Tidal has many rich citizens, commentary about the Federation and debates about its future tend to range a bit more freely here than elsewhere in the Federation.                                        %                                      ÂSkye is smallish for an inhabited planet.  It has a slightly rarefied atmosphere, but a high internal density that provides a gravity of 0.992 standard G.  Many forms of life flourish on this bountiful paradise world, which has all the environments you might expect from a class-M planet.  Skye is a provincial world, and the people here are happy and carefree.  The troubles of the universe seldom intrude in this best garden of the Federation.  The population numbers many Gaelic people, and celebrations of traditional feast days are always exuberant.  The sunsets over Hope Bay on the western hemisphere continent of Llyril are a marvel of the galaxy, and are perfect for quiet contemplation of life.                                       ÙProspectors always number among the first people to explore new territories, and space has not proved to be an exception to the rule.  Lodestone was discovered to have rich mineral deposits in the second major expansion of the Colonial Council.  Many useful metals are mined here, as well as gems and rare earths.  Lodestone is officially a Federation member, but is in reality owned by BHP Billiton, who in turn lease out parts of the planet to smaller concerns.                                       ºWhile Pan looks beautiful from the air, anyone who's been unfortunate enough to spend a night here unprotected will tell you that it's the Devil's own ball of rock.  Pan plays home to a vigorously competitive ecosystem, and the carnivores here are fast, silent and extremely strong.  Did we mention sharp teeth?  Lots of teeth.  Suffice to say, be well armed when landing here, and leave your deflectors up.                                       The Federation battlestation Spacedock I is the main border trading post between the Federation and the galactic south.  Auroran traders don't often come here without an escort, though, and tensions are obvious throughout the station as Auroran warriors and Federation soldiers brush shoulders in the corridors of this military outpost.  Under the command of Capt. Hab Scale, SD I has repelled many incursion attempts. It will continue to do so "while a single man remains alive to man the guns," he says.                                       zGreenwich reflects the twin British desires for comfort and control.  Although habitable by humans when first discovered, it was only barely so.  In an effort to make it more habitable, the Federation launched its second terraforming effort (after the disaster on Mars), and it has been 100% successful.  Powerful microwave satellites heat areas of the atmosphere to control the violent storms that used to rack the surface, while gas converter sailplanes high in the stratosphere keep oxygen levels at the comfort point for humans.  Two small moons (Chronos and Hourglass) were dragged into orbit by hyperspace shunt to suck off some excess atmosphere.  Designed by Graeme Stuart, an English engineer of great genius, Greenwich is a lovely place to live, but tends to be overcast many days of the year, to protect against overexposure to Horizon's sun.                                       OFrom Chronos' watery surface you are afforded a fine view of the rising planet of Greenwich, and Chronos' sister moon Hourglass.  Chronos is, as yet, uninhabited due to its thin atmosphere (which requires a breathmask for comfort).  More than a few traders come here to refresh their tired spirits.                                       éHourglass is presently under Federation quarantine, as a hostile species known as the Cunjo was introduced here by Auroran raiders, along with some of the small, oddly geometric native trees it feeds on.  Every so often some foolhardy Aurorans come here in a primitive initiation rite, or to "test their strength," as they call it.  Of course, most don't leave.                                       ÍThraine is named for a character from an old Earth book dating from before the collapse.  Thraine got its name from its people, who tend to be short and stocky in build.  The reason for this is that the first hypergates weren't tuned quite right for safe travel over long distances, and many mutations and deaths were common.  The main feature of Thraine is the low dwellings of the inhabitants, who prefer depths to heights.  Mind your head in the bar.                                        ıThror is to Thraine what Luna is to the Earth.  Thror has been strip-mined for some decades now, and it continues to provide much of the raw material for Federation activities throughout this sector of space.                                       cLPAD was a propulsion research lab in the days before ion drives were perfected for sublight travel.  According to rumor, researchers on this station actually came up with a remarkable new design for sublight travel that would reduce fuel requirements to a twentieth of the current value.  However, Pyrogenesis swiftly executed a hostile takeover of Tidbinbilla Inc and quietly terminated the project, for fear of having their revenues for raw gas mining slashed.  LPAD still has backup power, but anything of any great worth has long since been removed by Pyrogenesis Corp.                                        Rauther was the third planet ever to be purchased outright, but the first to be purchased by a corporation rather than a government.  Rauther Power Industries maintains their primary research lab here, as well as their main office.  As you can imagine, this is unbelievably convenient for tax purposes.  Rauther also houses a small fleet of gas mining droid ships that mine the planet Rautherion Prime.  Rauther's share price is on constant display via laser holographic projection into the thin atmosphere.                                        %                                      ’Outcast is one of many Federation prison worlds.  No stockade fences are present and there are few guards, as the entire planet is a tectonic nightmare.  Tours of duty are brief here, and guard personnel are rotated regularly.  The prisoners are all hardened criminals or terrorists, and many sophisticated escapes have been attempted.  All relied on outside help via a waiting ship, but none have ever made it through the blockade.                                       üThe inhabitants of Helen numbered many ecologists in the early days of settlement, and as such, much effort was made to hide evidence of human habitation.  Most homes here are either underwater or underground, and many of the major cities straddle the line between coast and tidal breakers.  Most power comes from thermal layer inversion pillars, which provide relatively low levels of power, but an inexhaustible supply of it.  A green world with many different types of plant, Helen exports small amounts of plant material for use in expensive clothing.  The line 'Made by Helen (tm)' is worn by the elite throughout the Federation.                                       ~With three hundred separate spaceports at last count, and many more in the pipeline, Ryll is the ultimate port world.  Ryll's bountiful oceans are home to a variety of genetically engineered giant kelp that fits well into the natural ecosystem.  This kelp is harvested for biotech, food, and medical purposes.  Ryll's shallow seas and sweeping plains are dotted with bulk carriers, and the occasional Pegasus or Leviathan comes to collect a cargo of herd animals or kelp.  Ryll is a very prosperous world, and its wide open spaces are often used in government films promoting tourism and colonization.                                       ¬The first thing you notice about Honor is the weather.  While extremely changeable, the rains are never extreme (more like sun-showers), and the hot days never too bright or too hot.  Honor is seen by the Taoists as the perfect example of balance, and there are many temples of that philosophy here, as well as Shaolin Buddhists.  Honor puts one in mind of a picture perfect day in the ancient Middle Kingdom on Earth, and certainly many of the population are oriental in background.  By general unspoken agreement, Honor is fairly low tech, with any areas that must be modern discreetly hidden from casual view.  The spaceport is often missed by tourists from the air.                                        %                                      You'll often hear seasoned space pilots speak of "Hearth and Home" in spaceport bars across the galaxy.  Far from being just a simple expression, it is, in fact, a reference to this unassuming planet in the Homeland system.  Ex-spacers make a up a large percentage of the populace, and many houses follow the naming patterns of 'Dunroamin' and the like.  Hearth is a mild M-class planet of rolling hills and gentle dales, which exports a moderate amount of agricultural produce to the outside universe.                                       åSerenity is a center for the expatriate Japanese peoples of the Federation.  While most emigrants from Japan went to the galactic south and into the Colonial Council territories that now form the Auroran Empire, many stayed in the bounds of the core worlds.  Serenity's cities are formed around the precepts of building contemplation gardens and Shinto temples, although the effect is different when modern building technology is thrown in as well.  The overall effect is quite pleasing, if a little overdone.  Many financial institutions have their main offices here, and Serenity is a rich planet because of them.                                       ƒA sparsely populated planet, Mairim is a breathtakingly beautiful world.  Cold, and often dangerous, Mairim is home to a brave few who eke out a living hunting the sleek ice-cats that live on the steppes.  Few ships land here, and those that do are welcomed indifferently by the aloof hunters and their families.  There is no official government, and taxes have not been collected here since before the last census.                                       CMenin's famous dome was created with this planet in mind.  Kiniké has always been polluted due to overcrowding and heavy industrial manufacturing centers.  The domes were a godsend, and now life on Kiniké is actually bearable.  While the outside view is nothing special, the air inside is clean, and everyone has at least 80 square meters of living space.  Efforts are being made to clean up what remains of the biosphere, but with raw effluent still pouring out from the factories, the job will take many more decades of political wrangling.                                       ÜIn stark contrast to Kiniké, Kolan has hardly been touched since the first days of the colonization of the Sanddown system.  Kolan is a forest moon made of particularly dense materials (mostly iron and lead), but it still only has a gravity of 0.6 G.  Most of the wealthy industrial magnates of Kiniké actually live here rather than on the planet below.                                       ~One of many gas-mining centers in the Federation, Kismet stands apart in its great harvest of Chrotite gas, a rare heavy noble gas.  Chrotite gas is used as a coolant in modern starship engines, where it is supercooled to a liquid state.  Chrotite is more stable than most other gases under radioactive bombardment, and has the bonus of being totally non-toxic (although it's still dangerous as a super-cooled liquid).  Kismet makes a small fortune as the only known planet to have large raw supplies of this gas, and Fate (Kismet) Pty Ltd is one of the more heavily traded stocks in the Nikkei index.                                       ÑMining has never been a glamorous occupation, but it is one of the more essential activities that humans engage in.  Herald has large stocks of many common minerals, and the metals and semi-metals common here are always in demand.  Herald also has high concentrations of the material used to make duranium, which is much sought-after for use in space.                                        %                                       %                                      With its twin moons of Beacon and Keystone, Moonview is touted as a honeymoon destination for the discerning Federation citizen.  Skycars and glass cities dot this sparsely populated world, which is rich in plant life.  The oceans of Moonview move in strange synchronization with Keystone and Beacon, causing some very strange tides indeed.  This is also one of the few places you can get two blue moons in the same month, and when it occurs there is general feasting and carousing.                                       TInhabited by the descendants of the first Polynesian spacefarers, Notas is a young world that is still somewhat volcanic.  The rich soil and long growing season provide the people of Notas with a bounty of food and other produce throughout the year.  As quakes are still common on this planet, tremor-proof buildings have appeared, in most places echoing the designs of Peruvian Indians with their seemingly random interlocking blocks.  Many young men and women here become members of the Federation Defense Forces, and are renowned for being fierce warriors.                                       ´Dunroamin was originally discovered and claimed by an itinerant prospector and space-tramp, but she lost it in a court case against the Colonial Scouting Corps (who claimed that it had been discovered months earlier by one of their long-range probes).  The out-of-court settlement enabled that tramp, Felicia Kane (great grand-daughter of Omata Kane), to set up home here in the style to which she would become accustomed.  Dunroamin is analogous to old Earth's 'Beverly Hills,' with many holovid stars and sporting heroes making their homes here.  The Federation Navy also has many bases on Dunroamin with large numbers of troops stationed here.                                       ∂Rigel III is a horrendous mix of toxic atmosphere and toxic bacteria, with heavy gravity thrown in for good measure.  It is no coincidence that the Federation Hostile Environment Training Center is located here.  After a stint here, most troops will be very prepared to face just about any dangerous conditions you can name.  Small wonder; Rigel III is worse than anything else they'll ever encounter.                                       §The University of Misfire is infamous for taking an opposing position to most Federation doctrine (most of which is produced by Kane University on Earth).  It houses many academics who don't fit the mold of traditional scientists because they believe in actually doing some research.  This does not endear them to the Federation council, or to the Krim-Hwa, who have made many unsuccessful attempts to have the University closed.  Popular public sentiment (plus some extremely cutting and pointed arguments from Professor F. Cook of the Liberal Philosophy department) have prevented the government from being able to remove this annoyance.                                       ~A navy as large and as active as the Federation's needs supplies, and lots of them.  Kerensky is but one of the hundreds of supply depots scattered throughout Federation space.  Spare parts, raw materials, support craft, food, ground vehicles and troops in suspended animation are all held here.  Federation troops are rotated through here and many other depots every few years, to save on supplies and to maintain a huge reserve force in case of need.  The depot itself is housed in a huge, tremor-proof building to protect its contents from the many tectonic disturbances experienced on this planet.                                       »The atmosphere of Gineia is heavy on chlorine, and humans can only survive in the completely airtight habitation domes.  Pyrogenesis maintains a heavy presence here in order to harvest the abundance of chlorine gas.  If you are prepared to part with enough money, one of the pilots of the atmosphere scoops will take you on a wild ride that you will never forget through this turbulent and extremely hostile atmosphere.                                       XDespite their best efforts to the contrary, not even the enlightened leadership of the Federation can help everybody.  Brass is one of the places where, despite the best efforts of the Federation Council, the living conditions are still substandard.  Perhaps this is due to the fact that the inhabitants are yet to organize a way of choosing a person to represent their planet on the Council.  To this day the seat for the representative of Brass remains empty.  So even though Brass is one of the most populated planets in Federation Space, its plight continues.                                       cOfficially, the main exports of Codec are the results of its enormous medical and computing research centers.  Unofficially, Codec is the center for Federation bio-weapons research and its information technology warfare department.  Many of the doctors and young computer professionals of this world are engaged in technically illegal activities, but because they give some of the results to the Federation military, they remain free from persecution.  As a result, if information or illegal biotechnology is what you want, you can get it all here, if you can pay the price.                                       îAs the salesman says: "If you want weapons, you have come to the right place!!"  Home of the GLi-Tech corporation (formerly known as GLiMMER until the discovery of the Glimmer system), this planet has only one export, weapons.  GLi-Tech is one of the few commercial weapons manufacturer of note, and the oldest by far, as it was created in 2045 AD (approximately -735 NC, some 1900 years ago).  So if you want weapons of any kind, from portable flame throwers to the enormously successful radar missile system they invented, you can get it all here.  However, it does not come cheap; if you want it, you have to pay for it.                                       ÔPeople who live here have nowhere else to go.  They could not get further away from anywhere and everywhere if they tried.  If there is a bright center to the Federation (or anywhere else for that matter), you are in the system that is farthest from it.  Goliath used to be a thriving artistic community where peoples from throughout the Known Galaxy came to work with the many Vell-os artisans to create countless wondrous pieces of art.  After the Vell-os Wars, with all the Vell-os killed or enslaved, Goliath slowly wasted away.  Now the populace live in habitation domes, as they fear to go into the ruins of this once wondrous planet, which stand side-by-side with the now desolate ghosts of that bygone era.                                       \Originally, Cornwall was settled to provide an industrial base for further 'human' colonization into Vell-os space.  Now, however, Cornwall supports the reasonably-sized Federation task force in this system by providing all the goods and materials they need.  This task-force is perhaps the least active of any in the Federation, but remains an integral part of its defense. More than once, Auroran forces have launched surprise attacks through this system, and there have been encounters with odd alien ships from the ruined areas of what was formerly Vell-os space.                                       ﬁBordering on Polaris space, Vrenna is an icy planet uninhabited except for a few hardy souls who hunt the vicious Vrenna ice-lizards.  Called lizards for their looks more than their biology, these creatures resemble thirty foot long, eight foot high, three-eyed, six-legged, slightly more than one-ton, fur-covered lizards, and it is for their fur that they are hunted. One pelt of the silkily soft, rippling gray-white fur is viewed as extremely valuable by both the Federation and the Polaris, and could be traded for enough food to feed a decent family for many years.  Despite this, very few seek to hunt the ice-lizards, as the lizards tend to kill more hunters than the hunters kill lizards.                                       SDuring the brief war with the Colonial Council, the Polaris were saved by the timely intervention of the Vell-os, and also through the actions of one of the Council's cyborg-soldiers.  Little is known about that man, other than part of his unit designation - Mjolnir.  Apparently, he destroyed a piece of new technology that would have ensured victory over the Polaris.  It is worthy of note that he is the only non-Polaris soldier to be remembered by the Polaris warrior-caste with respect, although none of them seem to be prepared to tell you exactly why.                                       ÈHe, meaning "one" in the Polaris language, signifies this as an important station.  Standing on the border of Polaris space, facing hostilities from both the Federation and the Wraith, the members of the warrior caste, which is named "Nil'kemorya" in the Polaris tongue, who are housed here seem to have an almost preternatural stillness about them.  Although they treat you with absolute respect, you cannot help feeling more than a little frightened.                                       ΩThe Nil'kemorya, as the warrior caste is named, have built a station here as a bulwark against any Federation-backed incursions.  The Polaris, and specifically the Nil'kemorya, have always found that their greatest threats have always originated from Sol, humanity's homeworld.  Having been on the receiving end of many Federation plots, they view anybody associated with the Federation with great suspicion.                                       rA world of deep canyons with relatively large amounts of water covering its surface, Nil'ar Nina has only trace amounts of oxygen in its atmosphere, and supports little life.  The planet is uninhabited except for where the Nil'kemorya, as the warrior caste are called, have left a few supply depots to support their station in orbit.                                       The scientist caste, known as the "P'aedt", have established a station in orbit around P'ar Karo in order to study the unique electromagnetic bursts radiating from it.  Their first challenge will be to work with the "Ver'ash", the name given to the engineer/healer caste, to produce a new way of modulating current Polaris shield technology so that they can take a ship down to the planet's surface without the radiation frying all its instruments and killing everyone on board.                                        %                                      †The Nil'kemorya are the only inhabitants of this station.  As a rule, the Nil'kemorya have a stillness and a seriousness of aspect about them that you have only ever seen amongst the most elite and battle-hardened soldiers elsewhere.  You quickly come to the realization that they are all exceptionally capable, even compared to those soldiers considered 'exceptional' elsewhere.                                       *Tre'ar Zalom is a relatively small world covered by a great archipelago that has been cultivated by the worker caste, known as the "Tre'pira", as a center of aquaculture.  The many seafoods produced on this planet are served and enjoyed by many throughout Polaris-controlled space, and are highly sought by all.  Rumors of the delicacies produced on Tre'ar Zalom have become near-myths outside Polaris borders, and many a young merchant has attempted to sneak into Polaris space, in order to reach this fabled planet.                                       ﬁThe worker caste, called the "Tre'pira", harvest and cultivate wood and other useful plant products on this mountainous world.  Unlike other planets in other parts of the Known Galaxy that have similar resources, the Polaris with their highly advanced technology seem to be able to manage their resources at a sustainable level.  Many members of the Tre'pira look down on their counterparts elsewhere in the galaxy for precisely this reason.                                       ÉMore like a floating mountain than a sky-station, Tre'a He is maintained by the "Tre'pira", the name given to the worker caste, so that they can harvest the rare gases that are present in the ionosphere of Tre'ar Aeberl.  These rare gases are later used as a catalyst in the process by which the Polaris 'grow' the biological portions of their ships.                                       qTre'ar Illini is a beautiful, forest-covered world with extremely rich deposits of rare earths, and it is for these minerals that the Tre'pira, the Polaris worker caste, are present on this planet.  Because of careful management and advanced technology, the beauty of Tre'ar Illini remains virtually undisturbed by their operations.                                        %                                      «Nil'kemorya, the name given to the warrior caste, is a difficult word to translate into Basic.  When used while referring to weather or season, it conveys a sense of autumn, of a slight chill in the air, of gloriously blazing trees, and of falling leaves.  When talking of members of the warrior caste, Nil'kemorya symbolizes those beautifully colored autumn leaves that have left the tree but have yet to reach the ground.  The Nil'kemorya are considered to have already lost their lives, as their lives are given to the protection of the Polaris people.  They are waiting for this reality of death, much like the way the autumn leaves fall, riding the chill autumn breeze, so that the tree might survive the coming winter.  Because of this, the Nil'kemorya have no fear of falling in battle, and sortie out again and again, knowing that by doing so, they are giving their loss of life increasing value.  This is their homeworld.                                       wDespite being a perfectly suitable world for colonization, Z'heaj remains uninhabited.  A planet of wide, sweeping plains and vast herds of wild animals, it has an air of ancient Earth, before human civilization.  The reason for its lack of settlement, especially considering its proximity to the center of Polaris space, remains unclear.                                       ¬This is one of the many wonders discovered by the original Polaris expedition as they explored their way through space.  Tre'ar Helonis, as the ringworld came to be called, stunned and amazed the scientists of that expedition, and has continued to baffle Polaris science ever since.  The sheer volume of matter required to build this obviously artificial construction dwarfs all human constructions throughout history.  Other than housing a large scientific community, the majority of the vast ringworld that is settled by the Polaris is devoted to agriculture.  This feeds nearly the entire Polaris people, although over 99% of the ringworld still remains uninhabited.                                        %                                       %                                       %                                      •A small moon with no real resources or interesting features to speak of.  A thin yet still breathable atmosphere surrounds Z'precti He.  No life exists on this moon, as the last microbial life-forms became extinct approximately 3 billion years ago.  Z'precti He has not been settled because the Polaris people do not yet require the space, and there is no other reason to settle here.                                       The Polaris government maintains an administrative outpost on this planet.  The surrounding sector of space is basically governed from here. The most amazing part is that some 380 Polarans seem to be all that is required to perform all the necessary administrative tasks that come with governing an entire sector of space.  The fact that all of the inhabitants are over a century old seems relatively innocuous by comparison, especially when the average life expectancy for the Polaris is 205.9 years.                                       ‡The P'aedt, as the scientist caste is known, had this sky-station built to show that it was possible to levitate a city-sized construction within a planet's atmosphere, and to make it practically feasible without enormous wastage of power and energy.  The planet below, called P'ar Veraniso, is left completely untouched.  The P'aedt now use the station, named P'a Se, as a home for many experiments into new theories in propulsion technology.                                       ‹Tre'ar Teschesch is a small planet without an atmosphere to speak of.  If it were not for its huge deposits of minerals and ores, it would remain completely undisturbed.  The Tre'pira work on this planet to mine and refine these resources.  The low gravity of this planet enables the Tre'pira to sling the refined ore into orbit with relative ease, where it is picked up by Polaris freighters to be taken to various parts of Polaris space.                                       hThe Ver'ash, as the healer and engineering caste are known, make their home here.  As Polaris technology became increasingly biological, the professions of engineer and physician grew closer together, and as the caste system developed in Polaris society over the first century of its isolation, their work became so intertwined that they came together in the same caste.  Ver'ar Shan is a highly technological world with buildings that are both hospitals and industrial workshops covering approximately a third of the surface of the planet.  Nevertheless, a very beautiful world.                                       Because the Nil'kemorya actually receive the most injuries (leading to the warrior caste having by far the lowest lifespan of all the castes, a mere 122.6 years), and their ships receive the most damage, they really require a separate facility to cope.  The facilities on Ver'ar Sho, a small moon of Ver'ar Shan, are used as a military hospital and ship repair yard.  Nearly all Nil'kemorya casualties, as well as a large number of damaged warrior caste ships, end up being treated here.                                       ãThe Tre'pira, the worker caste, working with the Ver'ash, the healer/engineer caste, build and grow many ship parts on this station in order to repair the more common types of damage to Nil'kemorya ships.  This then takes the pressure off Ver'ar Sho in the Ver'ashan system, so that they only have to deal with the more seriously damaged warrior caste ships.                                       ,This mostly water world is home to an indigenous kelp-like plant that grows many thousands of feet high, and can be used to synthesize many different types of food.  The Tre'pira introduced a type of plankton-like life form that nests in the reproductive buds of the kelp.  As the plankton move on and reproduce, they spill the nearly microscopic seeds contained in the buds, therefore increasing the rate of reproduction of the kelp.  The worker caste then harvest both the kelp and the plankton, which is also edible.                                       Ar'Bis Routak has a thin but quite breathable atmosphere.  The Polaris named this planet after their first leader, Bis Routak, who led the Polaris expedition for their entire sixteen-year sojourn. He died four days after they landed on Kel'ar Iy, where they made their home. He held the Polaris together against all odds, and through often seemingly insurmountable difficulties, so in remembrance of his leadership, all Polaris leaders are given the prefix 'Bis' upon taking the mantle of command.                                       }This planet is named after Bis Valalo, the leader of the Polaris who decided to encourage the Polaris people to become members of castes, in order to pool their common knowledge and talents and advance knowledge more effectively.  Oddly, the planet the Polaris have chosen as a memorial is dark and brooding, yet still beautiful in its own way.                                       Ver'ar Pised as a world is a bacteriological swamp that is in its early stages of evolution.  Life on this planet has not yet reached the multicellular stage.  The Ver'ash, the healer/engineer caste, take the bacteriological sludge and convert it into biological agents that are useful in many ways.  The products created from the primordial soup on Ver'ar Pised are used in the growing of the biological components of Polaris technology, and in the healing of the sick and wounded.                                       ¬Over four centuries ago, the P'aedt had a disagreement with the Ver'ash over who should have rights to a particular system.  After decades of wrangling, the Tre'pira came in to adjudicate, but unfortunately both sides disliked the settlement and rejected it.  In response, the heads of the Ver'ash and the P'aedt were assassinated by a member of the Tre'pira, and suddenly there was civil war.  Iusia, the head of the Nil'kemorya, after agonizing for three days, led the warrior caste in a decisive campaign that incapacitated the warring castes and so ended the first and only Polaris civil war. In doing so, he broke his own spirit.  After restoring order, Iusia came to this planet to die.  Out of respect for the only man who has ever stopped the Polaris from destroying themselves, the Nil'kemorya give their leaders the title Iuso, which means 'disciple of Iusia', as they view this man with reverence above all others.                                        %                                       %                                      ÜThis is a highly technical world where nearly all of the useful biological agents cultivated on Ver'ar Pised in the Ver'avo system end up.  They are used in the creation of medicines, and to help grow and repair the biological components of Polaris ships.  Despite the numerous Ver'ash laboratories, Ver'ar Noriout remains an extremely beautiful planet.                                       OTre'ar Aljo is a large moon that falls under the influence of the Tre'pira, because it could at some stage be mined for some of its fairly extensive deposits of minerals.  However, the Polaris do not yet need to make use of these resources, and so far they have refused to disturb its stark beauty.                                       ¶This is an M-class planet with an enormous artificial ring which the Polaris found intact.  The best theory on how it was constructed is that the materials were taken from the relatively small gas giant also in the system, which used to be much larger.  The haze surrounding it, which is thought to be around 500,000 years old, and will last another 1.5 million before collapsing, is the remains of that process.  This is both the capital of the Polaris and the homeworld of the Kel'ariy, the leadership caste.  Interestingly, the Kel'ariy come from all the other castes and have to be chosen by the members of their own caste; the only criterion is that they be over a century old.  The ruling council has four members from the Nil'kemorya, six from the Ver'ash, eight from the Tre'pira, five from the P'aedt and one from the Mu'hari.  In addition, there is the leader who is given the title Bis.                                        %                                      QThe Nil'kemorya maintain their war headquarters here.  The warriors on this station hold themselves ready to deal with any large-scale threat to the sovereignty of the Polaris.  The only time this base has been put to its maximum use was during the first and only Polaris Civil War, when Iusia, the leader of the Nil'kemorya at the time, led the warrior caste in a seven-day campaign which crippled the capacity of the warring castes to make war on each other. The battle leader of the warrior caste, titled Iuso, meaning 'disciple of Iusia', resides here.                                       >This is the third of the three warrior caste training worlds.  This is where the last two years of training are carried out.  In those two years, the potential Nil'kemorya will take part in military roles that increase in danger and severity, to get them used to the danger and violence inherent in the existence of a warrior.  The location of Nil'ar Narada, on the Polaris border with the Wraith, gives the students plenty of opportunity to prove their worth, and quite a number do not survive through this final part of their training.                                       ”Kel'ar Heper is the administrative headquarters for all the surrounding Polaris-controlled space.  While the planet is under the sway of the Kel'ariy (as the leadership caste are known), the Tre'pira, the working caste, maintain a fairly large presence here to both support the Kel'ariy and to cultivate the extremely rich soil of this world.  Kel'ar Heper is a mountainous, somewhat volcanic, yet still extremely beautiful world.                                       ‹A world named for Bis Usoca, the leader who defied the old Colonial Council.  This world is a stunningly beautiful world, and yet remains completely uninhabited as a symbol of the lonely existence she chose for the Polaris.  Every time a new leader is chosen by the Polaris Ruling Council, that person must spend one month alone on this planet to remind them of the seriousness of their position.  No other Polaris ever land on this world.                                       ¨This is a forested, mountainous moon circling Ar'Bis Usoca that has a small population of Mu'hari, as the 'casteless' caste are called.  The Mu'hari ensure the preservation of the pristine environment on Ar'Bis Usoca, and protect it from any outside incursion, warding it against all ships except for those piloted by the new leaders of the Polaris.  Ar'Uso is a small green jewel of a moon.                                       …This is the homeworld of the Tre'pira, or worker class.  In the Polaris language, the word Tre'pira can be translated as meaning 'the highest', 'the brightest' or even 'the purest', depending on its context.  This is reflected by the way the Polaris view the Tre'pira.  They have far more members than any other caste, and the vast majority of young Polarans wish to join the worker class.  That and the fact that the Tre'pira hold the most seats on the Polaris Ruling Council ensure the pre-eminence of the working caste.  Tre'ar Pira is both rich in minerals, and extremely fertile.  It is well mined and cultivated, but is still beautiful in a pastoral and mountainous way.                                       †The Tre'pira built this station originally as a trade center for Tre'ar Pira, and while it still performs that function, as Polaris society expanded, the worker caste expanded also.  Now its primary function is to act as a logistical headquarters for the movement of the many thousands of Tre'pira shipments throughout Polaris space.  The leaders of the Tre'pira all reside here.                                       ˆThis gas giant has only recently had a sky station built in its atmosphere.  With new discoveries by the P'aedt and the Ver'ash in biological ship component growth, the Tre'pira went looking for an abundance of naturally existing chemicals to fill in the needed gap in supply until they found a way of synthesizing the necessary compounds.  To their surprise they found what they were looking for in the upper atmosphere of Tre'ar Vano inside their own home system.                                        %                                      -The Nil'kemorya maintain three worlds for training purposes, and this is the first of them.  This is where prospective young warriors are taken at the age of four, and stay until the age of twelve.  In that time they are trained in the various martial disciplines, from unarmed personal combat to capital ship gunnery tactics.  It is a grueling and testing time for the young potential warriors, and many drop out to join other castes.  Nil'ar Peset itself is green-canopied, with forests literally covering its surface.                                       ^This Nil'kemorya battlestation, while completely operational, is used mostly as a training aid for the teaching of the young prospective warriors being trained on the world below.  It is from here that all Nil'kemorya for the last five centuries have received their first space familiarization and combat lessons.                                       ÜNearly two centuries into the development of the caste system, it was realized that there were a significant number of young Polarans who did not fit easily into any one of the castes; their talents had more of a general nature than a specific one.  So, the "casteless" caste was created, and this is their homeworld.  The casteless all wear black to signify their shame at being incapable of entering another caste, and think of themselves as "servants of all."  Strangely, the other castes view these "Mu'hari" with a certain amount of awe, and even more strangely, the position of leader of the Polaris people has been held by more people who came from the casteless caste than from any other.  Mu'ar Haro has naturally occurring biological agents, rich rare earth veins and dangerous, and aggressive, natural predators.  Hence jacks-of-all-trades flourish here.                                       -Ver'a He is the space-bound campus of the college of Ver'ash.  This is where the young healer/engineering caste students come to be taught some of the different applications of their knowledge in a space-based environment.  It is also the location of the advanced learning center for Ver'ash students who have passed the age of twelve.  From here they journey throughout Polaris space under a tutor, learning the practical side of Ver'ash work, until the age of sixteen whereupon they become full members of the Ver'ash.                                       äThe main college of Ver'ash is located on the surface of Ver'ar Roqu.  When any young Polarans are thought to be suitable for entry into the Ver'ash, they are brought here at the age of four and stay until the age of twelve.  In that time they are taught all the basics of human biology and medicine, and also the system by which the biological components of their ships are grown.  The planet itself remains virtually undisturbed by the college, except for the occasional prank by some of the older students, which is usually laughed at by all, but quickly cleaned up to return Ver'ar Roqu to its pristine state.                                       ÒVer'a Se is the most prestigious research facility run by the Ver'ash anywhere in Polaris space.  Over half of all advances in medicine, ship 'growth', ship repair and design in the two centuries since the station was built have come from here.  Only the best and the brightest of the Ver'ash are invited to work here.  Other than Ver'ash members, the station also houses a handful of P'aedt, the scientist caste, and one or two Mu'hari, the 'casteless' caste.                                        %                                      èThis is a mountainous, pastoral world in the Tre'petaka system where members of Polaris society who have dishonored themselves, their caste, or nation in any way are sent as a disciplinary punishment.  While they are here, these individuals are put to work performing menial duties as laborers in the mines or on the farms under the watchful eye of the Tre'pira.                                       …This is an enormous gas giant which has in its atmosphere has the largest hydrogen sky-mining operation in the Known Galaxy.  The Tre'pira siphon off the hydrogen and then store it in magnetically sealed containers for transport to the station in orbit around Tre'ar Varia. The hydrogen is put to a multitude of uses as a fuel and a reactant in some of the processes by which the Ver'ash create useful biological agents.                                       áTre'a Ca is a trading post set up to support the enormous hydrogen sky-mining operation on the gas giant below.  It is here that the hydrogen is processed for transport to the various parts of Polaris space that require it.  The Tre'pira on the station run a smooth operation that ensures that all necessary hydrogen supplies are delivered ahead of time.                                       qThe scientist caste maintains a research station here that primarily looks at the effects of various types of weaponry and space hazards on biological ship design.  The P'aedt have invited a significant number of Ver'ash to observe and help them with their experiments, as they know more about the biological ships than anyone else.                                        %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                      KThis Tre'pira-run station is used to absorb and funnel the unique radiations emanating from the neutron star named Tre'an Olep.  These radiations are then used to alter the crystalline structure of pre-fabricated metal ship frames.  The end result is a much stronger and more flexible material.                                       ·Ar'za Diti is a moon named for Ambassador Arditi from the Colonial Council.  He was the ambassador who decided to enter Polaris space, despite repeated warnings that any entry into their space would be viewed as an invasion.  The resulting incident caused the Colonial Council to go to war against the Polaris, and then the Vell-os, and ultimately led to the disintegration of the Colonial Council and the centuries-long dark age that followed.                                        What land Kel'ar Fel has is mostly mountainous, but the vast majority of its surface is covered by water.  Some 367 members of the Kel'ariy, the leadership caste, make their homes here.  From here they see to the administration of all Polaris space from here to the border with the Wraith, and the farthest northern reaches of Polaris exploration.                                        %                                      /Nil'ar Riai is the second in the series of three warrior caste training worlds.  Young prospective members of the Nil'kemorya stay here from age twelve to sixteen.  While they continue with their martial training, they also spend six months at a time with the other main castes.  The reasoning behind this is that of all the castes, the warrior caste must be able to appreciate just how valuable the work of the other castes is, and just how difficult their jobs are.  Many students leave the Nil'kemorya during this time.                                       TThis station, which is in orbit around Nil'ar Riai, is used in the continual training of the potential young warriors housed there.  It is also where the young prospective members of the Nil'kemorya spend six months working with the Ver'ash, helping to repair any damaged ships, and healing the wounded.                                       õThe word P'aedt translates roughly as 'he who climbs the tree of knowledge, only occasionally falling', a surprisingly apt metaphor for scientific advancement in human history.  Many notable scientific experiments have had horrifying effects on human civilization.  The P'aedt have had only one fall from the tree of knowledge, and that is P'ar Aed.  Some of the effects of their early experiments left this planet a polluted nightmare of a world.  It is precisely for this reason that the P'aedt have claimed this world as their homeworld.  They wish to remind themselves that they are no better than any other group of scientists from anywhere else in the galaxy, or from any other period of human history, for they too have a black mark.  While a great deal of technological research goes on here, most research on this planet is directed to repairing the damage that they have done.                                        %                                      ?The Ver'ash on this planet work in tandem with the warriors from the Nil'nesa system to heal injured warriors and help repair their damaged ships.  They receive a steady stream of work as the Nil'kemorya continually fend off incursions by Wraith herds into Polaris-controlled space.                                       àThis station is used as an emergency medical facility for those warriors who are badly injured during Wraith attacks in the Nil'nesa system.  They also have constructed shipyards to receive those ships that are too heavily damaged to land on the planet below.  Many young potential Ver'ash are sent here to observe and work on real battlefield casualties.                                       †Tre'ar Erma has only recently been colonized, and there is only one small Tre'pira methane-gathering operation present on the surface.  The actual methane needs of the Polaris are only fairly small, but the Tre'pira recognize that they may need some more soon as the Polaris population increases.  So, rather than reacting to a shortage, the worker caste started operations here.                                       mThis station, in orbit around Tre'ar Erma, uses the methane gathered on the planet's surface to create organic compounds which are then used to outfit the interior of Polaris ships.  Many of the objects created here in the most recent of Polaris stations have started to decorate the interiors of ships throughout Polaris space.                                       æThis station is manned by the Nil'kemorya to fend off incursions by Wraith herds into Polaris space.  They receive constant action as the tribes frequently take hostile action after wandering into Polaris territory.  This station has the distinction of having the most deaths per year of any warrior caste station, mainly due to its distance from any Ver'ash facility and the unforgiving nature of the Wraith.                                       ëThis planet is used as a supply depot for the battle station in orbit.  It is also an alternative venue for a forward training base for young warriors from the Nil'nesa system in their final stages of training.  This depends on the number of students in the final stages of learning, and on the current levels of Wraith activity in this system and around Nil'nesa.                                        %                                      äThe Nil'kemorya, as the warrior caste is named, have built a station here as a bulwark against any incursions from the Auroran Empire.  The Nil'kemorya have gained a great deal of respect for the warrior ethic of the Aurorans, and more than once they have been surprised by the level of skill achieved by a civilization as low in technology as the Aurorans.                                        %                                      hNamed for the predators from Cunja Loff in the Tocc system, this station was built to keep an eye on the mysterious Polaris.  Many young warriors set off from here to earn battle honors, and also to seek the coveted purple battle tattoo; it can only be earned in battle against the Polaris, as there is no more formidable opponent.  Even surviving such an encounter shows skill, if not necessarily courage.This system falls under the control of the Auroran central government, as opposed to one of the Five Houses.  Throughout all of 'Auroran Space', there are remarkably few systems that are governed by the central seat. The Five Houses do not allow it, for the seat is always held by one of them.  They all know that if the First House became too strong, then they would be incapable of wresting power from it at some later stage.                                       ˜Arabus is a largely barren world that is almost devoid of life, and is surrounded by a thin, cold atmosphere.  This is another planet that falls under the jurisdiction of the Auroran central government, which maintains a supply depot here to support Cunjo in the Sender system.  This depot would not be necessary if the Five Families were prepared to work with the central seat of the Auroran Empire.  However, because they are not, and because of the immense distance from here to the center of Auroran space, this supply dump is needed.  It is also here that young warriors go to prove that they have actually come up against the Polaris and are worthy of the respected purple battle tattoo that signifies such an event.                                       ŸThe scientists of the Auroran Empire have managed to construct a research station, despite the lack of funding and respect given to scientists by Aurorans.  They are trying to investigate the cause for the unique radiation signature coming from the Holpa Nebula.  Most young Aurorans are completely unaware of the station's existence, because the scientists fund it themselves, and it is of absolutely no military importance whatsoever.                                       €Cibella, barring the one major island, is a water world that until the recent colonization by the nearby Tekel family was an untouched paradise.  However, in the last two decades since it was settled, the population of the one arcology has increased to nearly eight billion people, and the pollution has begun to have serious effects on the ecology of this once-beautiful world.  In typical Auroran fashion, this is not seen as important.                                       This is the home world of the fearsome predator, the Cunjo.  This deadly animal rivals the Vrenna Ice-Lizard in ferocity, speed, and strength, but unlike the Ice-Lizard, they have no valuable pelt, and there is no economic reason to hunt these huge, aggressive, and cunning creatures.  Cunja Loff itself is an almost untouched paradise, with a wild, uncivilized feel to it.  Many young nobles from Tekel house attempt to prove themselves as warriors by coming here to bag themselves the head of a Cunjo, even though many hunters have not returned.  The hunting of a Cunjo, if done in groups of less than three, is worthy of a battle tattoo, and those who regularly come after the Cunjo find themselves covered with the brown tattoos that signify their prowess.                                       °Like Cibella in the Cworn system, Nibos Prime is a mostly water-covered world.  Its claim to fame is its beer.  This is the birthplace of the extremely popular Nibos beer.  While many other systems throughout the Empire have a Nibos brewery, many purists believe that the most flavorsome beer of the Nibos label still comes from here, where it is brewed in the Nibos main brewery.                                       àTekel House warriors are brought to this barely habitable planet and abandoned for one week as a part of their initiation.  Agrippa is scoured by occasional sandstorms of such incredible size and ferocity that few initiates might hope to survive one.  Even if the wind remains low, the wide, expansive deserts bake all but the hardiest of initiates, and many still fall.  That is why, when the young warriors of the Tekel House return from their initiation, many take as their death tattoo a symbol of the blazing sun.  So many have done so that it has very nearly become the warrior symbol of the Tekel Family.                                       ‹This station is one of the two main bases for the Tekel House battle fleets and, like many battle-stations in the Empire, is named for one of the many desired qualities in a warrior.  The fleet stationed here is used mostly to blood young warriors by sending them into Polaris space to face a truly worthy enemy.  More warriors from the Tekel House have earned the respected purple battle tattoo from facing the Polaris in battle than from any other of the Five Families.  Nearly all moves into Polaris space are launched from here, and even though the warriors here acknowledge the higher level of technology and skill of the Polaris military, the number of Polaris-bound missions remains high.                                       úRomule is the Tekel seat of learning and science.  All of those young men and women from noble families who show little aptitude for becoming warriors are sent here.  All of the scientists, merchants and administrators of the Tekel House come out of this institution.  However, this planet is viewed with some distaste and more than a little suspicion by many Tekel warriors.                                       „The Tekel House maintain their major supply depot on the surface of this world.  Many of the arcologies that dot the surface of this once paradisiacal world are mostly filled with various military supplies and the emergency food stocks of the Tekel Family.  Still, even though Nickas has a relatively low population, it is still extremely overpopulated.  That, and the relatively low technology within the Empire, ensures huge pollution problems.                                       ‹This station orbits the planet Nickas to handle the flow of supplies in and out of the system.  The huge amounts of supplies used by the Tekel military ensure that this station is busy even during periods of relative inactivity.  Merchants always find that they are kept at the bottom of all the priority lists because of the lack of respect for their work in the eyes of the many fearsomely tattooed retired warriors that run the station.                                       úThis system is the location of one of the few major battles between the Empire and the Polaris.  The Auroran fleet had been using Fallen as a staging post for a major incursion into Polaris space.  The Polaris hypered into the system and made a pre-emptive strike against the building Auroran forces.  It was only due to the glorious actions of the Tekel warriors that any part of the main body of the fleet escaped.  It is the only battle with the Polaris that has earned a special battle tattoo, the purple leaf, and there are only two old grizzled warriors remaining who still carry this tattoo.  Although the battle occurred over half a century ago, its repercussions linger today, in that no incursions of that size are planned into Polaris space.  Even the Aurorans, with their near-suicidal bravery, see no point in sending countless young warriors off to their deaths needlessly.                                       úThis is the second of the two major bases for the Tekel battle fleets.  It is here that many of the young potential warriors find the tutors that will instruct them on the finer points of the warriors' code.  Many of the old and infirm warriors remain here to help raise young warriors to bring honor to Tekel House.  From here, the young aspirants journey to Agrippa in the Grip system to undergo their initiation as warriors.  This station also stands across the main path for any hostile fleets coming from the rest of the Empire, especially Dani space, and so is kept fairly active maintaining the security of the Tekel Family.                                       ÓDue to the constant warring between the Empire and the Federation, the continuous sniping between the Five Families, and the constant striving of young warriors to achieve honor for both themselves and their house, Tekel warships are nearly always being damaged and destroyed.  On Gladius, every part for every ship is manufactured and then shipped into orbit for assembly.  Without these facilities, the high level of security maintained by the Tekel battle fleets would be impossible.  Many seasoned warriors returning from battle have wept at the welcome sight of the Gladius Shipyards, as it was only then that they knew that they were going to survive and continue amongst the living warriors of Tekel House.                                       OWhile the surface of the planet below is used to manufacture all necessary ship parts, these huge orbital shipyards are used to build and repair everything in the Tekel House fleets.  This station is by far the busiest of all ports in Tekel space, as Auroran ships, due to the relatively low technology and the warlike nature of the Empire, are always coming in for repair.  All Tekel warriors have a soft spot in their heart for this place, as without these facilities many of them would have died soon after battle, lost in the vast blackness of space.                                       ˚This planet has by far the highest population of all planets in Tekel space.  With a population of slightly more than 136 billion, it is terribly overpopulated.  Only through the careful management of the Tekel family can such a population be maintained.  Even so, the amount of pollution is horrendous, and there is little that can be done about it after the last millennium of settlement.  Also located on this planet is the head of Tekel House and his ruling council.                                       ÏKymonthia is one of the few worlds in the Empire to remain virtually untouched by pollutants and human habitation.  This is because many of the naturally occurring chemicals and bacteria on this planet are extremely useful in the production of many different medicines.  Because they govern this system, Tekel House has the lowest death rate of any house, as they use slightly more than half the products. The rest is traded out to the rest of the Empire.                                       ÌThis is where most critical patients and battle-injured warriors are brought.  Many recovered warriors speak highly of the physicians and scientists in this place.  Their existence has given at least a little credence, in the eyes of the warriors, for the necessity of the institution on Romule in the Tekel Rom system.  The commanders of Kymonth Station ensure that only the hardest-working and most intelligent of the graduates are allowed to serve here.                                       &This ringed world was discovered by the Aurorans nearly two centuries ago.  Upon learning of its existence, they decided to investigate it to see if any useful new technology could be gained from it.  However, the first group of scientists sent to investigate never returned.  Another team of scientists were sent, and they too disappeared.  After this, it was decided that these losses were pointless and no longer justified. No more teams were sent, and so the puzzle of Kont and its builders remains a mystery.                                       `The atmosphere on Eguit is breathable, but only just.  That, along with the horrific conditions in the many ore mines, make this planet one of the most miserable in the Empire.  Because the ore is extremely useful, and because nobody in their right mind would make their home here, all criminals and dishonored warriors from Tekel House serve their punishment on this planet.  Given its remoteness and hostility, escape is virtually impossible, especially given the fact that the warriors tasked to provide security are told that if they fail, they will become prisoners.                                       ⁄Named after the former Obsidian Heart, Arbiter of Reckoning of the Tekel House, this system was the scene of a great victory by the Tekel over the Dani.  Neilha lured the Dani battle fleet into the system before single-handedly engaging the entire fleet, thus holding them in place until the Tekel fleet was able to get into position.  His action enabled the Tekel House warriors to help themselves to a near-complete annihilation of the Dani fleet.  Unfortunately, Neilha was killed in the engagement.  Those Tekel warriors who survived wear a small dark crystal tattoo to show that they were involved in the battle, and to honor the passing of their Obsidian Heart, and his superhuman deeds.                                       €Situated deep in the Rochak Dust Field, Kipa is one of this group of systems that play home to ronin warriors; warriors who have been cast out of their families for dishonorable actions.  These warriors occasionally attack along the trade routes close by.  On this small asteroid, which they have named Houseless, these warriors have a small base for refuelling and some basic repairs.  So far they have managed to avoid angering the Dani and Tekel families too much, and so they continue to plague this area.  Both these great houses claim that these systems fall inside the borders of the other, and that therefore it is not their problem.  In short, these pirates continue to operate freely.                                       ‘Turalis is a frozen wasteland of a world.  Temperatures on the surface never even rise close to freezing, but otherwise the world is habitable with a near perfect atmosphere.  Thus far it has escaped the notice of the vastly overpopulated Empire because of the resistance by Dani House warriors.  These warriors come to this untouched planet for silent contemplation and to fight the ritual duels that often spring up between them.                                       ÿThe Dani House maintains a listening post here, manned by a group of extremely dedicated warriors.  It is their duty to warn the Dani fleets of any incoming hostile attackers and then hold them off for as long as possible, to give their fellow warriors time to prepare.  It is an arduous position, but the honor earned is immense, and those who survive can wear their many battle tattoos with pride and are treated with respect by all.                                       ÕValoria is a desert world that is dotted with countless small oases.  The Dani use this world as a hunting field and as an initiation planet.  Potential Dani warriors are sent here for one month as an initiation.  Surviving on this world for a month, due to the many oases, would not be an incredibly difficult task if it were not for the introduced Cunjo, the most vicious predator found naturally inside the borders of the Empire.  The Cunjo hang around the oases in search of prey, which then makes the only habitable areas of this planet extremely dangerous.  Many of the young Dani warriors have two rows of savage teeth laser-etched across their chest as their death tattoo.                                       kSchmoo is a beautiful world and is a favorite honeymoon destination for young couples from throughout the Empire.  Many young honeymooners also buy a set of Lixos opals that are regularly supplied here, as they are seen as a good luck charm.This system is actually run by the Auroran central government, and is therefore policed by warriors from all houses.  All young Auroran warriors must spend at least a year in service to the central Auroran seat in an attempt to reduce hostilities between the Five Families.  Many of them end up here even though they are not really needed.                                       There are only two entry points into Dani space, and the Dani Kilik system straddles one of them.  This system is the route of choice used by the ronin warriors of the Rochak Dust Field and by warriors from the capital of the Empire to the West.  No major battles have been fought here since warriors from the Tekel House travelled for many weeks around the Southern tip of Dani space to get behind their lines ninety-six years ago. This relatively small expeditionary force managed to inflict enormous damage on many Dani facilities and destroy a large number of Dani warships before being forced to retreat.  Dani House now maintains a well-equipped and well-trained force here to ensure that they are never again taken by surprise.                                         —Ormond is an extremely polluted planet which, carries an enormous human population of slightly more than fifty billion people. It is best known as a supply depot for the Dani House warriors stationed in the Dani Kilik system.  Occasionally the warriors carry out one of their many ritual duels here, providing a much-watched spectacle that captures the interest of the countless Aurorans who scratch out their meager lives here.                                       ⁄It is from here that the heads of the Dani Family exert their rule over the surrounding space.  Dani is heavily populated, carrying slightly more than 100 billion people. It also has a fairly large garrison of warriors, because if anybody were to defeat the warriors stationed in the Dani Himear system, they would then be only one jump away from the Dani leadership.  These warriors, who all carry a great deal of experience, are under the direct command of the Mundokiir, who is the leader of the Dani warriors.  They are one of the few units in Auroran space that have been given a name to identify themselves, and they are called 'Fenta-kiir', meaning 'They who fall to protect the heart'.                                       -It is here that nearly all of the parts used to build and repair the thousands of Dani House warships and merchant-craft are manufactured.  It is a huge enterprise that employs over two-thirds of this planet's fifteen billion inhabitants.  The many millions of parts produced on the surface are then shipped up to the enormous shipyards that orbit this world.  The gargantuan manufacturing processes on this planet have made a huge impact on the environment, and this world is more polluted than any other in Dani space.                                       These enormous shipyards are a haven for all those whose ships have received damage during the many space battles that punctuate the life of the Dani warriors.  Veterans all seem to have a tale or two about how they were uncertain of their survival until they reached these facilities.  It is here that the assembly of new ships, and the repair of those that are damaged, occurs.  All of the parts are manufactured on the surface of the planet below, and are then brought up to the shipyards to be used.                                       Palein is a center of learning, and is the main hospital world for all of Dani space.  If a son or daughter of a well-off member of the Dani House shows little aptitude to become a warrior, he or she comes here to learn a trade as a scientist, merchant, diplomat, physician or engineer.  It is only through the last two professions that this planet is given even a grudging amount of respect by the warriors, for while many young warriors see little need for the other professions, they cannot keep their ships running without engineers, and many would die without the physicians.  None would dare insult the physicians who have graduated and then spend their lives healing the countless warriors who are seriously injured in battle.                                       ƒTeron is a relatively lightly populated world, with only a mere ten billion people making their home here.  The surface itself is covered by the huge mounds of supplies left here to support the operations of the warriors in the Dani Himear system.  There is also a fairly small depot, run by a few old, grizzled warriors, which organizes all the supply needs of the planet and all the warriors in surrounding space.                                       iThis system is the most heavily defended of all Dani House outposts.  Of the two routes into Dani space, this is the main one.  There are many incursions by warriors from both the Tekel and the Heraan Houses, and even the occasional raid by Federation scoutships snooping around well outside their borders.  Many young warriors that are stationed here journey North to show their skills by defeating the Federation soldiers.  Nearly all veterans of duty in this system have quite a few of the little blue battle tattoos that signify a successful engagement against the Federation.                                       BAtar has been settled for only a little more than a century, but it is so iron-rich that what started as a small mining community is now the largest mining operation in the Known Galaxy.  Some thirty billion people are involved in the process, and the ore is shipped throughout the Empire to all the shipyards for the major houses.  This planet is the biggest income earner for the central seat of the Empire, and is jealously guarded by warriors loyal to the First Family.  No ship goes through this system without being thoroughly scanned.                                       ⁄The Tekel House maintains a listening post here, manned by a group of extremely dedicated warriors.  It is their duty to warn the Tekel fleets of any incoming hostile attackers and then hold them off for as long as possible, to give their fellow warriors time to prepare.  It is an arduous position, but the honor earned is immense, and those who survive can wear their many battle tattoos with pride and are treated with respect by all.                                       ÒThis is one of the many Auroran 'Listening' Posts.  Here the forward battle-fleets of the Empire hold themselves ready to invade the Federation, or to be invaded.  Many young warriors crave a posting to these border stations as a chance to earn some honor and meet the Empire's oldest enemy.  No warrior leaves one of these posts without earning a great number of the small blue battle tattoos that signify successful engagements fought against the Federation.                                        Aria is the only planet in the Empire that has no land.  As a result, only about three billion Aurorans live here, and most of them are involved in the largest aquaculture project in the Known Galaxy.  The foods grown in the oceans of Aria push the Empire's food stocks into surplus.  This is an absolute necessity, for every few years the food crops of one of the major houses fail.  If not for the surplus stocks grown here, literally hundreds of billions of Aurorans would starve.                                       This planet was colonized by members of the vast underclass of Aurorans who are poor and have no aptitude towards becoming warriors.  No house claims these people, and, for the 160 billion inhabitants of this planet, the management of the First Family is all that stands between them and starvation.  Because of this, young men and women from this planet who become warriors are absolutely loyal to the Empire, not to any house.  They call themselves 'Dechtakars', which means 'we who sacrifice ourselves for the highest cause'.  They are the only warriors who have an image of themselves on their chests as their death tattoos, for they believe that by dying in service to the Empire they will finally have lived up to their own expectations.                                       UThis station is not really a 'listening' post; it is really a forward staging area for the Empire's forces.  It is also from here that the juvenile potential warriors from Rimerta in the Pimen system begin their initiation as warriors.  From here they must travel to the border and survive two weeks in Federation space.  It is because of this that no warrior from any of the Five Houses will show any disrespect towards the Rimertan warriors, as their initiation trial is one that even the most experienced warriors elsewhere would find difficult to complete.                                        Sorvad is an agricultural paradise where all the food eaten by those who support and live under the central seat of the Empire is grown, and it is extremely well guarded.  This planet is the life-line for the Aurora system itself, and without it, the central seat would starve.  Sorvad is the least populated world in Auroran space with only eight hundred million inhabitants, which includes some twenty million warriors.                                       «This planet houses the Auroran Council, which consists of three councilors from all the Five Families -- Moash, Vella, Tekel, Dani and Heraan.  An additional three representatives come from the First Family, which is currently the Moash House.  The Auroran Emperor is the leader of the First Family, and he sits at the head of the council and maintains order and has the only veto.  The Auroran Council decides on all matters that affect the Empire as a whole, but is not allowed to interfere in the affairs of the Five Houses.  However, the First Family, being one of the five, has been known to use the resources available to it as the First House to further its own ends.   flyby.qt                            'Philar' translates as 'the last step', and the warriors stationed here, like those at its sister-station Pholar, have a grim outlook on life.  They stand ready to put themselves between the center of the Auroran Empire and its absolute destruction.  Only the most wily and battle-hardened of the houseless warriors from Rimerta in the Pimen system serve here.  Of all Auroran warriors, the 'Dechtakars', as the Rimertan warriors call themselves, know the Federation as well as any, and hate them the most.                                       Z'Pholar' means 'the last wall'.  It is filled with warriors that carry an air of finality around with them.  They know that they are the last defense for the capital of the Empire, and they have all spent long periods on the border fighting the Federation, and know how strong they are.  The warriors all believe that the infighting between the Five Houses only serves the purposes of the Federation and weakens the Empire, making their job that much harder.  Still, they are proud of their posting, and would fight beyond death to fulfill their duty if they could.                                       ﬁOn this immense station, all records from all over the Empire that are greater than two years old are stored.  Some three centuries of Auroran history is housed here, and its loss would be catastrophic.  The records that are less than two years old are kept on Aurora itself before being filed here by year and by subject.  Everything from major battles to minor skirmishes, to births, deaths and any news at all is recorded on this station.                                       Olos manufactures all technical items required by the fleets under the command of the First Family.  The list of items produced here includes ship parts, building materials, and computer components.  Very few warriors have a great deal of respect for the manufacturers on Olos, and most will avoid stopping in this system if they can.  However, there is still a fair-sized detachment of warriors to protect this vital support system, for without it, the fleets protecting Aurora would grind to a halt.                                       0This is a forward assembly area for Auroran warriors to both protect the center of the Empire, and to launch forces to invade the Federation.  Nearly all young warriors spend some time at one of these stations, but only a few receive an extended posting to one.  Those that are sent here for any real length of time will have the opportunity to earn much honor and to sharpen their skills, as they are often sent as a ready reaction force to help out in the incessant border conflicts between the Empire and the Federation.                                       ÒLixos is the second biggest money earner for the First Family, and is the second-largest mining operation in the Known Galaxy, both behind Atar in the Pilot system.  On Atar, the operation concentrates on iron ore with a sprinkling of other metals, while Lixos has enormous veins of rare minerals and precious stones.  Because of its value, the First Family guards this system fairly heavily to ensure its security against the depredations of the other houses.                                       ≠This planet is one of the most beautiful and temperate in the Empire.  It is only lightly populated, and its main source of income is tourism.  Water Moon is used by high ranking members from all the Five Families as a pleasure and relaxation retreat.  A side effect of this is that a number of backroom deals between elders of all houses are thrashed out in the corridors of the hotels here.                                       µThis small outpost stands across one of the main routes into the Empire from the Federation to provide an anchoring point for a fairly large battle fleet.  Warriors stationed here spend nearly as much time in Federation space fighting its soldiers as they do in Auroran space defending against the same.  It is one of the most honorable postings that any warrior can hope to be given in their career.                                       This is another forward observation and staging post on the border of the Federation and the Empire.  Because of the fearsome and suspicious natures of the aggressively tattooed Auroran warriors, very few merchants from either side wish to cross the border and be under the constant scrutiny thereafter of these dangerous men.  So while trade between the two nations is allowed, it is sporadic and is so heavily policed that most merchants are unwilling to take the risk or go to the trouble.                                       <Habilis is a small world with the only official Auroran exploratory outpost on it.  Here scientists, engineers, and warriors work together in an attempt to penetrate the veils of space to the Galactic South.  Thus far they have been unable to find a single stable jump point, but nonetheless they continue trying.  In the meantime, the Empire is slowly transporting people from places like Rimerta in the Pimen system and Lobos in the Sonete system to this planet, in an effort to reduce the enormous population strain on those worlds.                                       ˆThis small Heraan outpost is an early warning station manned by fewer than fifty warriors.  It is named for the Thurokiir (as the Obsidian Heart of the House is known) who came up with the original defense concept for Heraan space.  The Mundokiir (as the general of the house is called) disagreed, and the Thurokiir came to this system to act as early warning to show that his plan was necessary.  After two months of maintaining his impassivity at the mocking derision of his fellow warriors, he espied a large Dani battle-fleet hypering in.  Not only did Eyeya warn the Mundokiir, he kept the Dani fleet busy for three hours by flying his personal fighter into the midst of the Dani formations and destroying a few key command ships.  When they finally defeated him, the Dani fleet departed knowing that they could not defeat the Heraan fleets in their own space if they were pre-warned and prepared for their arrival.  Nobody has since mocked Eyeya, his plan or his actions.                                       ¨This lightly manned early warning post is named for the Heraan style of unarmed combat.  Over the centuries, the Heraan warriors have shown themselves to be nearly invincible in hand-to-hand confrontations.  Their style includes very powerful strikes and a subtle understanding of wrestling techniques.  Their method of fighting is called the Heron style because those who are acknowledged masters of this style by their fellow practitioners have a heron tattooed onto their faces.  At any one time, there are perhaps three or four Heron masters amongst the Heraan warrior population, and they are held in the highest respect by any who meet them.                                       ÷Like Rimerta in the Pimen system, Lobos was colonized by members of the enormous Auroran underclass made up of the poor and weak.  Unlike the Rimertans, the warriors from this world inevitably become members of the Heraan House.  This is out of gratitude for the Heraan-sponsored management of their planet, and for the guidance that the Heraan warriors freely give to them in terms of training and support for these young aspirants.                                       7This listening post is named for the Heraan House in remembrance of the deaths of the many thousands of warriors who died ensuring the escape of the House leaders through this system during the Great Moash Invasion two centuries ago.  Because of their sacrifice, the leadership of the Heraan Family survived and was able to travel through Federation space to lead a counterstrike against the Moash homeworld.  The result of this attack caused the Moash warriors to be recalled, allowing the Heraan House to resettle its own space.                                       UDominance is the major military base of the Herran House.  Because of its relative closeness to the Empire's border with the Federation, the tens of thousands of warriors here are assisted by many young 'Dechtakars', as the warriors who are loyal to Aurora rather than the Five Families call themselves.  Because of this post, there are very tight ties between the Dechtakars and the Heraan House, and Heraan warriors who serve here carry the title 'Avarach' with pride. 'Avarach' translates into Basic as 'he who would die for his brothers from across space'.                                       ÖTranquility is looked upon by Heraan warriors with a great deal of respect, for the lightly populated world contains perhaps the most technically advanced hospitals in the Empire.  Countless warriors have been brought back from death through ministrations of the well-trained nurses and physicians that live and work here.  It has been calculated that nearly twenty percent of all Heraan warriors have been to this planet to receive medical treatment at one time or another in their lives.  So important is this planet that the warriors of the Heraan House have built a battle-station in orbit to protect it.                                       HThis battle-station was built to protect the hospitals on the surface of the planet it orbits.  The warriors stationed here go out to battle gladly, because they owe huge debts of gratitude to the people below for their efforts in healing their colleagues' battle wounds.  They also know that by protecting these miracle workers they are helping their fellow warriors survive.  So those stationed here are called 'Korasch' which means 'they who fight with a bright soul' for they go to battle with joy in their hearts and a smile upon their faces.                                       This world is very heavily populated, and therefore extremely polluted.  The main role for this planet is to be an enormous stores dump for the Heraan House military.  So along with the four hundred immense arcologies, this planet has fifty huge, squat buildings that house missiles, food, parts, and everything else warriors dedicated to the Heraan family might need.  Many of this world's 156 billion inhabitants spend their lives growing hydroponic food to add to the supply.                                       õDuring the Great Moash Invasion two centuries ago, warriors from the Moash House came to this system after clearing the rest of Heraan space.  The warriors who were stationed here fought like demons and were able to hold off the battle-weary Moash fleets for many weeks.  The leaders of the Moash Family then decided to surround the system and to starve those redoubtable warriors rather than face them in open battle.  After the remnants of the Heraan House attacked Moash space, drawing their warriors home, they returned to find nothing but death.  The only warrior to have remained at his post had scratched the word 'Mortosch' into his station before he died.  'Mortosch' means 'I have stood before death for too long'.  This hulk is left completely empty in remembrance of those warriors who could not be defeated in battle, and as a reminder to young warriors of their mortality.                                       This world was originally a part of Heraan space before the Great Moash Invasion.  In the two centuries since, the Heraan House has sponsored its management but has not claimed it as its own.  However, like Lobos in the Sonete system, young potential warriors from this planet, if they succeed, all swear fealty to the Heraan House.  For now, the leaders of this world wait, with a secret loyalty, for the Heraan Family to expand again and place this world under its protection.                                       bUnfortunately, in a nation as immensely overpopulated as the Empire, crime is a major problem.  And because the Moash House, as the First Family, remembers being forced to give up Heraan space two centuries ago, they have chosen to give responsibility for the holding of criminals to the Heraan House.  This world, which was a pristine ice-world even six decades ago, is now an overpopulated and incredibly polluted prison-world.  Siberia houses some 113 billion criminals sentenced under Auroran Law, and some thirty billion warriors and administrators to look after them.                                       ÆHeraan is the most heavily populated world in Known Space, with some 220 billion inhabitants.  This includes the largest concentration of warriors in Heraan space, because it is just one jump away from the border of Heraan space in four different directions.  The warriors posted here are ready to hyper out at a moment's notice to help with any border conflicts as necessary, but they are also ready to defend their homeworld if the borders of Heraan space crumble.  The leaders of the Heraan House make their homes here, and oversee not just the military action, but also the management of food resources for the enormous population of this world.                                       This station is the headquarters for the Heraan Mundokiir, as the general of the Heraan forces is called, and is the anchoring point for one of the largest battle fleets in the Empire.  The warriors stationed here stay at a high level of readiness because of the proximity to the border of Heraan space, and the closeness of the Moash Family.  For they are located both to the East, where Moash have their own space, and to the West, where the space they hold as the First Family is located.                                       ŒUnlike the other four major houses, members of the Heraan Family do not hold scientists, merchants or any other members of their society in contempt, and so this place of learning is deeply respected by the warriors of the Heraan House.  Also unlike the other houses, the Heraan Family try to get as many of their people to receive an education as possible.  Given the enormous population within Heraan space, this means that the leaders of the Heraan House have a much larger talent and education pool to choose from than do the other houses.  Perhaps this is why the Heraan Family, despite being relatively poor in terms of resources, is slowly becoming one of the most affluent.                                       -This enormous Deimos Hulk Station is used to house an emergency hospital where critically injured warriors are taken if it is deemed that they cannot make the trip down to a planet.  Otherwise, they would be taken to Tranquility in the Heraan Malo system; many of Etrusca's staff come from there, bringing their experience and knowledge with them.  This station also serves as a training outpost for the medical students from the planet below, who come here to receive some 'on the job' training in real life conditions.                                       ˆThis station has the dubious honor of being the closest large Heraan outpost to Moash space in a direct line, and so the Heraan House maintains a battle fleet here so as to leave no cracks in their defense against any incursions, be they Moash or otherwise.  The warriors stationed here always remember in the backs of their minds that this is one of the two entry points into Heraan space used by the Moash forces during the Great Moash Invasion two centuries ago.                                       iWhen the Heraan forces returned home after the Great Moash Invasion, many of the young warriors quite rightly accused the leaders of their house of bringing the invasion upon them through their incompetence.  A group of thirty young warriors openly stated that if the leaders did not step down, they would be killed.  The Thurokiir, as the arbiter of justice for the Heraan House is called, immediately challenged all of these warriors to a duel.  They all immediately attacked, and the skill he showed whilst contending against them is still a legend amongst masters of the Heron unarmed fighting style.  On that day, none of them could stand against him.  He then stood before the ruling council and said with a quiet dignity, "A body cannot survive if its head is diseased."  He then slit his own throat in shame.  His name was Arik.                                       ’The Moash House maintains a small station manned by a small group of warriors here, in order to provide early warning to their battle fleets.  The main threats that the warriors of this station are looking for are an invading Heraan task force, or a possible Federation incursion into the Empire.  The warriors on this station all look a little bored, as they have seen no real action in or around this system for several years now.                                       ?The construction of the first Mickle arcology only began two decades ago, and is not yet finished. Though the only inhabitants at this stage are the construction workers, the construction of an arcology requires such an enormous amount of manpower that the number of inhabitants is already nearly a billion, all of them necessary to the work effort.  The arcology should be finished in another decade or so, and then the First Family will organize to ship in billions of people to slightly relieve the population pressure on other worlds.                                       ıThe first arcology on Ginka was only recently completed, and work on the second and the third is being undertaken by the enormous influx of settlers.  In the last two years the population has skyrocketed from just over one billion to just short of fifty.  When the work on the second and third arcologies is completed in two decades, the population should double again, which will significantly relieve the pressures of overpopulation in other parts of the Empire.                                        %                                      √This system and the Heraan Astra system were the two entry points used by Moash forces during the Great Moash Invasion of two centuries ago.  When the Heraan forces finally returned to Heraan space, the station here was rebuilt and given the name 'Alertness'.  The warriors who live and work out of this station remember the events during the invasion and take the station's name to heart, remaining ever vigilant.                                       This small early warning post is named after a young Moash warrior who lived during the Great Moash invasion.  This warrior was one of the main reasons for the success of the Moash forces.  After passing his initiation at a very young age, he was not marked with a death tattoo, but instead journeyed to Heraan space and pretended to go through the training and trials necessary to become a Heraan warrior.  After succeeding, he became a junior assistant to the Heraan Ruling Council and proceeded to pass intelligence to the Moash forces during the war while also misleading the Heraan leaders.  Although he died in the conflict, he is regarded by warriors of both houses as an example of the dedication and discipline required to become a true warrior.                                       óGecht is still incredibly tectonically active, and will probably require about another billion years to settle down and become an M-class planet.  This world would be little other than a scientific curiosity if it were not for the fact that the Gecht-worms live here.  These creatures are usually thirty feet tall, and can be up to two hundred feet long. Though they have skin as tough as armor plate to protect them from the hostile conditions on the surface, the inner layer of flesh is soft and tender.  Gecht-worm flesh is prized as a delicacy throughout the Empire, and so many young warriors come here to hunt the worms.                                       €Some fifty Moash warriors make their home here on this tiny early warning post.  They are all waiting for the day when the Heraan battle fleets hyper in to exact revenge for their humiliation during the Great Moash Invasion two hundred years ago.  Never before in the entire history of the Empire has a House managed to so completely vanquish another.  It was only due to the overconfidence of the Moash leaders at the time that the Heraan forces were able to attack behind their lines, forcing them relinquish their new conquests.  The warriors here know that even though two centuries have passed, the Heraan warriors have not forgotten those events, and will one day seek to even the ledger.                                       Some three centuries ago, the leader of the Moash House decided that he would have a university built on this planet, so that those who could not become warriors could at least have an impact on society.  Since then, in the eyes of the warriors, the only useful contribution made by this place to the well-being of the Moash Family is the training of the many thousands of medical staff necessary to support them.  Most Moash warriors would avoid this system entirely if there were not a garrison placed here to protect this 'valuable' resource, and if the main hospital facilities in Moash space were not located here.  The warriors stationed here are a fractious, unruly lot, as they are often sent here as a punishment for some misdeed or another.                                       ﬁTwo hundred and fifty years ago, after having been attacked a few years earlier, Federation forces trying to send a warning to the Aurorans inadvertently passed through Moash space.  Anex, the Moash Mundokiir, (as the leader of the warriors is called) led a desperate counterattack against this surprise incursion.  As his small emergency taskforce of fighters crumbled under heavy fire, he abandoned tactical sense and attacked the center of the Federation formation.  After weaving his way through, his personal fighter was so badly damaged that it had no weapons or shields, and its guidance system was malfunctioning.  He managed to smash his craft directly into the bridge of the command ship, destroying the command staff of the Federation battle fleet and forcing the Federation forces to withdraw in disorder. This event, along with other Federation incursions, led the Five Families to join with the 'Auroran' family to form the Auroran Empire.                                       `One of the first decrees by the Moash House, upon becoming the first family, was that the Heraan Family were to look after the housing of all Auroran criminals, but they were not stupid enough to let them have any Moash law-breakers.  They knew that the Heraan House still remembers the Great Moash Invasion of two centuries ago, and that they would probably have treated any Moash criminals, and warriors who have broken their code, fairly roughly.  Consequently, Ekran is a prison world only for members of the Moash House sentenced to time in prison under Auroran Law.                                       PThe Moash House maintains their military headquarters here, and this is where their Mundokiir (as their general is titled) makes his home.  There is also a sizeable garrison here, as this is the most likely route for an incursion from the Vella House.  Alala Prime is also a mere one jump away from the system that is most at risk from both Heraan and Federation incursions.  Most young Moash warriors are posted here to learn their trade directly under the tutelage of their Mundokiir and his senior warriors before being sent out as veterans themselves.                                       åStlap is the reason for the Moash Family's affluence.  It is perhaps the most fertile world in the Empire, and produces enough food to feed more than any two houses.  It is also one of the most stable food supplies; its crops have never suffered a complete failure, and the last partial failure of any significant size was more than seventy years ago.  The Moash House sell the enormous surplus to the other four houses and make an enormous amount of money doing so.  This planet is one of the most important resources the Moash House have, and it is protected by the fleets attached to the battle-station in orbit.                                       ÿThis station was built to protect the pastoral jewel of a planet below.  The fleets here know that if Stlap were to fall to any of their rivals, the main source of income for the Moash House would be gone.  They also know that the Vella battle-fleets are aware of this, and that more than once they have probed this system to see how strong its defenses are.  Consequently, only the most desperate and deadly defenders are posted here.                                       ≈This is the homeworld of the Moash House, but the Moash Ruling Council does not make its home here.  Instead, because the Moash are also the First Family, their leaders reside in the Aurora system.  The population here has declined since the induction of the Moash House as the First Family; it is now only the second-most populated world in Known Space, with some two hundred billion inhabitants.  This planet was where the local government representative for the Colonial Council was located, in what was then titled the Moash region of known space.  This planet, like all the homeworlds for the Five Families and Aurora itself, has been settled for nearly a millennium.                                       ∏The Moash House maintains a massive supply depot here, where most of the supplies required by the entire military are kept in readiness for their use.  The three hundred dumps controlled by the depot dot the surface of the world like grotesque pimples.  The Mundokiir of the House has decreed that there will also be a garrison of warriors here to protect this vital installation against outside attack.                                       ˚This system is the most likely route that invaders from the Heraan House might take.  Ever since the Great Moash Invasion of their space some two centuries ago, the Heraan warriors have been more than willing to harass Moash space, so the warriors stationed here are almost constantly being raided.  By the end of their stint here, if they survive, they are covered by the small red heron-shaped battle tattoos indicating successful engagements against the Heraan House.                                       ›This early warning post is placed along one of the routes into Moash space.  It is not the most common route taken, but it does allow the warriors on the Endurance station in the Moash Nek system a little preparation time.  The warriors here, while not overworked, still get enough action to keep them from becoming bored or complacent, and they have saved those stationed in Moash space from being surprised by more than one sneaky attack.                                       ﬁAlthough most Aurorans have little time for religion, this planet is the religious center for the Empire.  This religion consists of a belief in an ethos of impeccability, and a cycle of rebirth depending on a person's actions in the previous life.  Even the warriors, who live by this same ethos, only pay lip service to the priests on Gungungun, and most Aurorans have even less tolerance of the idea, and live out their lives ignoring it.                                        %                                      óThe warriors manning this listening post know that they have the perilous duty of providing early warning for the warriors protecting Stlap in the Moash Rep system.  If Stlap were to fall to the rivals of the Moash House, then one of its main sources of income would be lost.  Many times, the warriors here have spotted Vella House forces hypering in, and have engaged them in order to give the forces in orbit around Stlap time to prepare.  Warriors who survive their posting here end up wearing a great number of the small orange battle tattoos signifying successful engagements fought against warriors from the Vella House.                                       ıThis early warning post is on the shortest route between Vella and Moash spaces.  Consequently, the warriors stationed here spend most of their lives fighting against the many probing task-forces sent by the Vella House, giving the warriors in the Moash Alala system time to prepare for any invasion.  This posting has the lowest survival rate of any Moash posting, but survival guarantees respect by members of the Moash House and from warriors from other houses.                                       ˙This world has had the fearsome Cunjo introduced to make this tropical paradise a little more deadly.  The Cunjo, with its enormous survival capabilities, has conquered nearly the entire surface of this green planet.  Young potential warriors from the Vella House are sent here to survive for one month as their final initiation.  As a result, the death tattoos of many Vella warriors take the form of green leafy foliage with a pair of watchful eyes hidden amongst it.                                       ∏The warriors stationed here spend their lives fending off the countless small incursions by Moash warriors, as this system is the closest Vella system to Moash space.  To keep the ledger even, these warriors also launch themselves across the intervening gap to harass the Moash forces inside their own borders.  The Vella warriors who live to see the end of their time here all carry a great number of the all-red battle tattoos that are awarded after successful engagements against the First Family.  The station is named for the Vella engineer who first designed the current configurations of Deimos Hulk Stations that are now used throughout Auroran space.                                       This early warning post stands along one of the two main routes for interstellar traffic into Vella space from Moash space and the rest of the Empire.  Given the constant internal wrangling between all of the Five Families, stations like this have proved to be a necessary part of the defense plans of all the houses.  The use of these small listening posts has proven so successful that the Empire itself has also adopted their use as a part of its defenses.                                       öThe warriors who staff this small early warning station spend their lives giving the warriors inside Vella space time to prepare to meet incoming hostile forces.  Of course, despite the fact that there are only fifty of them, the warriors here would never admit that they could not defeat any incoming force, regardless of size.  This means that the warriors who receive a posting here tend not to survive, but that those who do have obviously achieved a high level of skill at battle-craft, and have perhaps learned a little prudence.  Many of the Five Houses' leading warriors have served postings to places much like this one.                                       ≠This enormous battle-station stands across one of the two main routes into Vella space from the East.  It is named for the most common hair color of the members of Vella House, which has been an odd characteristic of the inhabitants of the Vella region of Colonial Council space since it was settled nearly a millennium ago.  The warriors here spend a fair amount of time defending against the small probing task-forces of the Moash House, and returning the favor.  It is an interesting reflection on Auroran life that a major house can engage in openly hostile activity against the First Family and still be acknowledged as a legitimate authority.                                       ≥Pand is a system that has been populated by members of the enormous poor and weak Auroran underclass that makes up nearly ninety percent of the entire population of the Empire.  Pand is looked after by the Vella Family, and that is to whom most of its young warriors swear fealty after achieving their warrior-hood.  Unlike similarly settled worlds, the population on Pand is not overwhelmingly large, due mostly to the careful management of the Vella House.  It has a mere forty billion inhabitants, and while that is still too large for the planet to support cleanly, it falls well short of the hundreds of billions living on similar planets elsewhere.                                       ·This planet supports the two major routes into Vella space from the East by maintaining several enormous supply dumps on its surface.  These supplies are used by warriors in the Vella Inkira and the Vella Belt systems to supplement their own supplies during times of need.  The population of this world grows enormous amounts of food and manufactures the many different items necessary to any war effort, so that they are available when needed.                                       lWhen the soldiers from the Auroran region of space rediscovered hyperdrive technologies nearly four centuries ago, they immediately moved to take over as much of the surrounding space as possible.  Eventually they reached what had been the Vella region of the Colonial Council, and began to conquer what had become a peaceful, agricultural society during the two centuries of isolation.  A small group of men captured one of the soldiers' hyperspace-capable ships, and undertook the months-long journey to Aurora.  Once there, they destroyed many major cities, which caused the Auroran soldiers to be recalled home.  The 'renegades' then journeyed to all of the former regions of the Colonial Council and taught them the secrets of hyperspace technology.  The leader of these men was named Adek Loral, and he never again saw his homeworld.                                       °This small station is perhaps the only Auroran listening post that is not actually a staging point for a large battle-fleet ready for action.  This station is only manned by a total of fifty, warriors who see very little action.  Now and then they have to escort a particularly devious Federation merchant out of Auroran space, but the last major skirmish against the Federation in this area of space occurred nearly two decades ago.  However, if history is any indication, the Federation is nearly due to for another attempt to invade through this area of space rather than trying to overwhelm the Aurorans at the normal battle fronts.                                       #This major military outpost is the furthest from the center of the Empire.  It was built in this little dead-end system to surprise any invasion forces that the Federation might try to sneak around the normal frontlines.  The warriors here spend most of their time training, so as not to lose their fighting edge during their mostly uneventful time here.  This force has been steadily building up over the last decade, in preparation for a possible major push into Federation space in the next ten years or so.                                       ˘The warriors at this early-warning station do not see a great deal of action, except for the occasional Moash patrol which tries to sneak around behind the major Vella defense points.  This posting is usually given to warriors who have served the Vella House long and honorably, as a rest between being given more demanding positions.  Those who serve here spend large portions of their lives training with and against each other, forever honing their fighting skills.                                        This is the homeworld of the Vella House, and it is where the Vella Ruling Council resides.  Vella itself is a polluted mess of a world, due to its enormous population.  The number of people living on Vella exceeds 170 billion, and they have numbered more than 100 billion for nearly two centuries.  In fact, no native plant or animal life has been able to live here for nearly eight centuries, as Vella has always been amongst the most populated planets in the Known Galaxy.                                       Though many virulent biological agents have been released into the biosphere of this planet, the surface of this world is devoted to the preservation of human life.  The enormous hospitals dotting the surface of Joccika harvest these agents and turn them into useful medical substances.  The physicians who work here are at the forefront of medical science in the Empire, and most new treatments for varying ailments come out of the research carried out by the many medical scientists who live here.                                       This is a massive space hospital, and nearly all Vella warrior casualties are brought here.  The nurses and physicians who live here all spend many hours a day attempting to save the many critically injured warriors brought to them, and although the conditions are still a little primitive, they do amazingly well.  This station has only been in operation for less than a decade, but given the advanced nature of Vella medicine, it should soon be amongst the most advanced hospitals in the Empire.                                       jAll of the Five Houses maintain an institution for learning, where those who choose not to become warriors may learn a useful profession.  This is the Vella world where young Vellans come to receive their education in such fields.  Vella warriors, much like their compatriots from other houses, view these people, and the worlds where they are taught their trades, with open disdain and disrespect.  However, the value of these people to their houses is immense, for without doctors, engineers, merchants, nurses, or scientists, none of the Five Houses would survive for very long.                                       UBecause of its infamous history, this Vella battle-station is titled after the name given to revolutionaries in an ancient, now forgotten language of Earth.  Nearly a century ago, the warriors stationed here became restless due to the boring nature of life on this station.  After repeated calls by many of them asking for a re-posting to anywhere else, the station as a whole revolted and declared itself independent of Vella rule.  Unfortunately for them, the warriors stationed elsewhere were more battle-hardened, and when they came to retake the station, not one of the revolutionaries was left alive.  Since then, the leaders of the Vella Family have decided to make this station into a training location for warriors between postings, and the surrounding space is filled with warriors practicing their skills.                                       ˜This Auroran outpost is further from the center of the Empire than any other, and is amongst the worst in terms of living conditions.  On this planet the Auroran Central Government maintains a fairly small tar-mining outpost, and sends many of the Empire's worst criminals here in punishment.  The conditions on Daor are vicious, with temperatures well below freezing at their warmest and virtually no atmosphere to speak of. Nobody has ever escaped from here alive.                                       HAlthough officially this listening post is here to watch for Federation soldiers, the real reason for its existence is to keep an eye on the forces loyal to the First Family some two systems away.  Suspicious of the Auroran Central Government's decade-long buildup of forces in the Brak system, the leaders of the Vella House ordered this small early-warning station built here.  The warriors on this station stay on edge, for they know that if the enormous Auroran fleet does decide to move against the Vella, they will be very difficult to stop.                                       This world, while technically part of the Auroran Empire, is left empty out of respect for the now long gone Vell-os.  When the leaders of the Vell-os people surrendered to the forces of the Colonial Council nearly seven centuries ago, their worlds were razed into lifelessness, and those who would not become slaves were killed.  The Aurorans have recognized that the actions of the Vell-os have been affirmed even by Federation historians, and yet they are still kept as slaves by the Federation military.  The Auroran diplomats remind their Federation counterparts of this on the infrequent occasions when they meet, and hint that any settlement between the Empire and the Federation will have to include the release of all Vell-os slaves.                                       ¨There is something very odd about this planet.  In every other system in what used to be Vell-os space, there is only rubble and radiation.  It appears that the old Colonial Council must not have brought their destructive nuclear weapons here, but considering the fact that at the end of the Vell-os wars the Colonial Council was hell-bent on destroying all traces of the Vell-os civilization, you find it a little strange that they left an entire system untouched.  Even more odd is the fact that this system also happens to have a habitable planet in it, which you suppose would have made it a prime target for their weapons of mass destruction.                                       ‘This planet is all that is left of what was once an advanced and beautiful civilization.  Very few records of the Vell-os before the Vell-os War have survived, but those that have show that this planet was a paradise world, with many beautiful buildings and parks.  The Vell-os that remain alive today say that in every city there were artistic and athletic festivals, and that these two pursuits were viewed as the most noble by all Vell-os.  Now only radioactive dust and one or two radiation-resistant microbial life-forms remain here.  You wish you could spend more time wandering around the ruins of this planet, but your bio-suit is already giving you warnings about the radiation.                                       ÍThe people of Soth are a hard-working people, whose only desire is to help others.  Their only real fault is that at times they will try to interject themselves into situations in an attempt to help, and only end up getting in the way.  They have a very relaxed and easy-going outlook on life, and they enjoy the little things.  But make sure you stay within the bounds of common decency, for they have very strong beliefs about what is right and wrong.                                        %                                       %                                      ˘You will not find a better example of a caring group of people as you will find here on Pipeline.  To a fault, they will spend as much time as they can on trying to do the right thing.  However, do not ask too much of them, because they have a tendency to fall into a depression occasionally when they think that they have fallen below the standards they set of themselves.  During these times they just need a little space to themselves, and they will recover nicely.                                       ¥The population of Eight are an odd group.  The people here vary from the extremely moral, yet understanding, to the near paranoid yet caring.  They tend to spend a fair amount of time working on artistic pursuits, but they do seem to have a little trouble going past that initial creative burst and finishing a project.  However, if you need a friend to help you out, then you won't find any better.                                       ´This place is the home of technical excellence.  If you want something custom-made, then the best place to get it done is here.  Everybody here seems to be bent on creating everything from scratch, and doing an absolutely professional job.  It does seem odd that the people here are an absolutely peace-loving people, and yet they make some of the best weapon systems in the known universe.                                        %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                      aThis planet is the headquarters of the Rebellion.  The people here are all very friendly, but a little reserved and very busy.  They are without fail willing to sit and chat about their beliefs concerning the role of the Bureau of Internal Investigation within the Federation.  They have lists as long as your arm of crimes committed by the Bureau, and they have statements of witnesses and huge files of evidence to support their accusations.  However, they quickly clam up when they are asked for specifics about their operation against the agents of the Bureau, which is understandable considering the intelligence-gathering capabilities of their enemy.  Most of these people seem to be young, energetic and far too serious for their age.  They have all obviously seen something that matured them long before they were ready.                                       nAfter more than 40 months, some 1000-odd pages of notes and background information, 12 short stories, some 1000-odd images, about 75000 man-hours, more than 10,000 email messages that take up more than 24 Mb of hard drive space, more than 10 Gb of development files, over thirty meetings and more than one strained friendship (some of which have remained a little cool), here is Nova.  We hope you enjoy it.  Oh, and congratulations on completing one of the major storylines.  That's one of the six, try again, and see what else you can find.Good luck, and thanks for playing Nova...                                       This station is the forward operations base for the Rebellion.  It is here that all Rebel ships and agents are given their final mission briefs before entering Federation space.  It is one of the busiest ports in Known Space, which makes the secrecy of its location somewhat of a counter-intelligence coup against the Bureau of Internal Investigation.  This probably is a result of the handiwork of General Cade 'Sundown' Smart, who was the former head of the Federation military, and also Frandall (code-name), who was the former Head of Federation Intelligence before the Bureau took over that role.  These two, as founding members of the Rebellion, have spared no effort in looking after the military and intelligence sides of the Rebel operation.                                       ¬This is the home of the 'Associated Guild of Free Traders'.  These 'merchants' are better known throughout the galaxy as pirates.  This is a surprisingly well-run station, but you should keep an eye out, as those who break the very strict code of conduct can find themselves in deep trouble very quickly.  One step outside the code, and you are fair game for everybody.  You are best off saying and doing nothing.                                        %                                       %                                       %                                      AEarth, via the Kane band, named after its designer Omata Kane, is still the center for all activity in the core worlds.  Most recently it saw the destruction of the Bureau and the re-integration of members of the 'Rebellion' back into Federation society.It is here that Dr. Oriallo Pentecost, the new President of the Federation, has his offices from which he makes his famous bi-monthly Federation addresses.  This world has seen a lot in the twelve centuries since Omata Kane designed its ring, but so far it has stood the test of time.                                       Mars was the first attempt by mankind to terraform a planet. Scientists sent by the Earth Government (the predecessor to the  Colonial Council) tried to make Mars more habitable.  They failed.  In the past 850 years there have been countless attempts to rectify the damage caused by the toxin-producing algae introduced by those original scientists, but even now Mars is only mildly habitable.  Breathmasks are still required in most areas, as most of the planet is still covered by this organism.                                       Z'Pholar' means 'the last wall'.  It is filled with warriors that carry an air of finality around with them.  They know that they are the last defense for the capital of the Empire, and they have all spent long periods on the border fighting the Federation, and know how strong they are.  The warriors all believe that the infighting between the Five Houses only serves the purposes of the Federation and weakens the Empire, making their job that much harder.  Still, they are proud of their posting, and would fight beyond death to fulfill their duty if they could.                                       ≤Europa is virtually uninhabited, with only a token military presence with a more ceremonial role than anything else.  Originally, the military garrison was placed here to be an early warning post in the years immediately preceding the creation of the Colonial Council.  Since then, the base was reactivated during the 'dark ages' to allow the inhabitants of Earth a little time to prepare for battle.  However, over the last few centuries, the military presence on Europa has been downgraded and is now viewed as a final posting for decorated veterans from the Federation/Auroran border trying to fill out their time in relative comfort before retiring.                                        Simpson is home to a number of small-time ship outfitters who maintain the vessels of the small number of prospectors (and occasional pirate) who roam the northern edges of the Federation and beyond.  It is known for its somewhat shady deals, and is tolerated by the Federation authorities, who usually give it a wide berth.  Many a criminal on the run can be found here, and bounty hunters number many among the populace.  Life is cheap here, and friends will betray friends for the price of another drink.                                       £Heraan is the most heavily populated world in Known Space, with some 220 billion inhabitants.  This includes the largest concentration of warriors in Heraan space, because it is just one jump away from the border of Heraan space in four different directions.  The warriors posted here are ready to hyper out at a moment's notice to help with any border conflicts as necessary, but they are also ready to defend their homeworld if the borders of Heraan space crumble.  The leaders of the Heraan House, despite its recent elevation, still make their homes here, because they believe that they have a responsibility to their people to do so.                                       KThis station is the headquarters for the Heraan Mundokiir, as the general of the Heraan forces is called, and the anchoring point for one of the largest battle fleets in the Empire.  The warriors stationed here stay at a high level of readiness because of the proximity to the border of Heraan space, and the closeness of the Moash Family.  Ever since the Herran House replaced the Moash House as First Family, young Moash warriors have been more than a little eager to harass their hated successors, and more than one major attack has been launched.                                       ÅMerrol used to be the only planet in Federation space to be in open rebellion.  At the time, the Bureau described this planet as a breakaway being held by 'pirates', and instituted a blockade for 'the duration of the current emergency'.  Merrol managed to survive their crude attempts at a siege, mostly because the inhabitants here were quite self-sufficient.  It was also the central shipyards for the Rebellion, where purchased, stolen and captured ships would be taken for refitting.  Many of the ships that required work sustained their heaviest damage coming through the blockade around the planet.                                       ¢This station was the forward operations base for the Rebels.  It was here that all Rebel ships and agents were given their final mission briefs before entering Federation space.  It was one of the busiest ports in Known Space, which made the secrecy of its location somewhat of a counter-intelligence coup against the Bureau of Internal Investigation.Nowadays it serves as a forward base of operations for the Federation attempts to quell the number of pirates that seem to be coming from the Galactic North of the Federation.  The men and women who serve here see a great deal of action due to their proximity to a nearby pirate base.                                       ©This planet used to house the Rebel leaders, but since the end of the Rebellion it has become a base for the new Federation Exploration Corps.  It acts as a return point for the thousands of scoutships that the Corps has sent out in an effort to explore further than humanity has ever gone before.  The services here are good, as they have been maintained since the days of the Rebellion.                                       ÿThis station was manned by the Nil'kemorya to fend off incursions by Wraith herds into Polaris space.  They used to receive constant action, as the tribes frequently took hostile action after wandering into Polaris space.  This station had the distinction of having the most deaths per year of any warrior caste station, but now that the Wraith and the Polaris have sorted out their differences, only a token number of warriors remain.                                       3This is the homeworld of the Moash House, but the Moash Ruling Council does not make its home here.  Instead, because the Moash are also the First Family, their leaders reside in the Aurora system.  The conditions you see on this world are little short of horrific; ever since the Wild Geese came through here, destroying everything they could get their hands on, the two hundred billion inhabitants have been forced to subsist in atrocious conditions.  The whole mess is not helped by the addition of the thousands of warriors who soak up the resources of several million normal inhabitants in order to live in the style they deem worthy of their status.  With an attitude like this, it might be some time before this world is rebuilt to anything resembling its previous condition.                                       tSD5's primary task is to supply and maintain the large Federation armada under the command of Admiral Raczak. Surviving a tour of duty in Raczak's Roughnecks almost always ensures an operational command posting elsewhere.  The Roughnecks have a long and proud tradition of producing the hardest and most capable veterans of any combat unit, due to the near-continuous action that the armada sees. It is hardly worthy of note that the Roughnecks have the greatest attrition rate of any operational Federation unit.  Up until the recent events in Auroran space, there used to be some contention between Admiral Raczak and the Wild Geese stationed on SD6, but since then relations have mellowed considerably.  In fact, it almost seems like Admiral Raczak places more value on his relations with the Wild Geese than with Federation Naval High Command.                                       ˝This planet houses the Auroran Council, which consists of three councillors from all the Five Families -- Moash, Vella, Tekel, Dani and Heraan.  An additional three representatives come from the First Family, which up until recent events was the Moash House, but is now the Heraan House.  The Auroran Emperor is the leader of the First Family, and he sits at the head of the council and maintains order and has the only veto.  The Auroran Council decides on all matters that affect the Empire as a whole, but is not allowed to interfere in the affairs of the Five Houses.  The First Family is currently more interested in trying to settle in and keep the fractious Houses from turning any political squabbles into military ones.                                       'Philar' translates as 'the last step', and the warriors stationed here, like those at its sister-station Pholar, have a grim outlook on life.  They stand ready to put themselves between the center of the Auroran Empire and its absolute destruction.  Only the most wily and battle-hardened of the houseless warriors from Rimerta in the Pimen system serve here.  Of all Auroran warriors, the 'Dechtakars', as the Rimertan warriors call themselves, know the Federation as well as any, and hate them the most.                                       õThis planet used to have a population of slightly more than 136 billion, but since the recent invasion by the forces of the Federation and the Moash House, that has dropped below 50 billion.  Those who remain will probably suffer slow and painful deaths over the next decade or so, as the full effects of the biological weapons employed by the Federation begin to take hold.                                       ‰This planet used to be the proud capital of Dani space.  Very little remains now that the Moash and Federation forces have swept through this system.  The population has been reduced from slightly more than 100 billion people to less than 40 billion.  The tens of thousands of warriors who used to be housed here were burned together and placed in an enormous earthen jar which is displayed prominently amongst the ruins of the spaceport.  The inscription tells you that they used to be called the 'Fenta-kiir', meaning 'They who fall to protect the heart'.  It goes on to say that they have now been renamed the 'Fento-Krakhen', which translates as 'Those who died attempting to blow against the wind'.                                       ﬂHeraan used to be the most heavily populated world in Known Space, with some 220 billion inhabitants.  After the Federation forces swept through here, the vengeful Moash warriors took out their anger on their hated Heraan enemies.  They left the countless bodies of the dead strewn everywhere as a silent witness to the largest massacre in human history.  After only a few months of destruction, not more than a one hundred thousand remain.                                         ñBefore the arrival of the combined Moash and Federation fleets, this was the homeworld of the Vella House.  What was already a polluted mess of a world is now virtually incapable of supporting life, and the 40 billion survivors of what used to be a population exceeding 170 billion are probably all going to die painfully from one cause or another over the next decade.                                       àThis station was formerly the headquarters for the Heraan Mundokiir, as the general of the Heraan forces was called, and was the anchoring point for one of the largest battle fleets in the Auroran Empire.  When they were defeated by the combined Moash and Federation fleets, this station was completely depopulated in a savage hand-to-hand fight.  In the end, despite the incredible abilities of the Heraan warriors, the Moash and Federation forces simply overwhelmed them.  Today, this station is completely empty, in mute testimony to the depth of the hate felt by the Moash warriors towards the Heraan House.                                       ≈This is the homeworld of the Moash House, but it has only been home to the Moash Ruling Council since they were removed from power.  Since they were stripped of their rank, many of their assets and merchant contacts have disappeared, leaving them with enormous financial problems. This has subsequently led to a starving populace - currently only some 175 billion people live here.  Originally, this planet was where the local government representative for the Colonial Council was located in what was then titled the Moash region of known space.  This planet, like all the five homeworlds for the Five Families and Aurora itself, has been settled for nearly a millennium.                                       ïThis planet is used as a supply depot for the battle station in orbit.  It also used to be an alternative venue for a forward training base for young warriors from the Nil'nesa system in their final stages of training.  However, since the Polaris have opened their borders to the Wraith there has been no need for even the token Nil'kemorya presence that remains here.                                       ˙Tre'ar Zalom is a relatively small world covered by a great archipelago that has been cultivated by the worker caste, known as the "Tre'pira", as a center of aquaculture.  The many seafoods produced on this planet are served and enjoyed by many throughout Polaris-controlled space, and are highly sought by all.  Rumors of the delicacies produced on Tre'ar Zalom had become near myths outside Polaris borders, and until the United Shipping company was allowed to begin trading here, many a young merchant had attempted to sneak into Polaris space, in order to reach this fabled planet.  Of course, now that the foods produced here have actually reached Federation tables, it has only confirmed the myths and increased demand.                                       ÔNear the former boundaries of Polaris space, Vrenna is an icy planet uninhabited except for a few hardy souls who hunt the vicious Vrenna ice-lizards.  Called lizards for their looks more than their biology, these creatures resemble thirty foot long, eight foot high, three-eyed, six-legged, slightly more than one-ton, fur-covered lizards, and it is for their fur that they are hunted. One pelt of the silkily soft, rippling gray-white fur is viewed as extremely valuable by both the Federation and the Polaris, and could be traded for enough food to feed a decent family for many years.  Despite this, very few seek to hunt the ice-lizards, as the lizards tend to kill more hunters than the hunters kill lizards.                                       oDuring the brief war with the Colonial Council, the Polaris were saved by the timely intervention of the Vell-os, and also through the actions of one of the Council's cyborg-soldiers.  Little is known about that man, other than part of his unit designation - Mjolnir.  Apparently, he destroyed a piece of new technology that would have ensured victory over the Polaris.  It is worthy of note that he is the only non-Polaris soldier to have been remembered by the Polaris warrior-caste with respect, although with the destruction of the warrior caste, little more is known about the man.                                       {He, meaning "one" in the Polaris language, signifies that this used to be an important station.  It used to stand on the border of Polaris space, facing hostilities from both the Federation and the Wraith, which ensured that the members of the warrior caste, which was named "Nil'kemorya" in the Polaris tongue, stationed here were kept busy.                                       |The Nil'kemorya, as the Polaris warrior caste was named, built a station here as a bulwark against any Federation-backed incursions.  The Polaris, and specifically the Nil'kemorya, were always of the opinion that their greatest threats would originate from Sol, humanity's homeworld.  In light of recent events, they were proved to be correct.                                       ÛA world of deep canyons with relatively large amounts of water covering its surface, Nil'ar Nina has only trace amounts of oxygen in its atmosphere and supports little life.  The planet is uninhabited except for where the Nil'kemorya, as the warrior caste were called, left a few supply depots to support their station in orbit.  Now the Tre'pira, as the worker caste is known, have taken control, and use the supplies here to increase trade with the Federation.                                       *The Nil'kemorya were the only inhabitants of this station.  Ever since the Polaris War was concluded and the Federation destroyed the Nil'kemorya utterly, this station has been kept running by a few devoted Tre'pira, and a few intrepid Federation entrepreneurs.                                       ÃNil'kemorya, the name that was given to the warrior caste, is a difficult word to translate into Basic.  When used while referring to weather or season, it conveys a sense of autumn, of a slight chill in the air, of gloriously blazing trees, and of falling leaves.  When talking of members of the warrior caste, Nil'kemorya symbolizes those beautifully colored autumn leaves that have left the tree but have yet to reach the ground.  The Nil'kemorya were considered to have already lost their lives, as their lives are given to the protection of the Polaris people.  They were waiting for this reality of death, much like the way the autumn leaves fall, riding the chill autumn breeze, so that the tree might survive the coming winter.  Because of this, the Nil'kemorya had no fear of falling in battle, as was demonstrated during the Polaris War where they fought until their caste was completely destroyed.  This was their homeworld.                                       ëThe Nil'kemorya used to maintain their war headquarters here.  The warriors on this station held themselves ready to deal with any large-scale threat to the sovereignty of the Polaris.  The first time this base was put to its maximum use was during the Polaris Civil War, when Iusia, the leader of the Nil'kemorya at the time, led the warrior caste in a seven day campaign which crippled the capacity of the warring castes to make war on each other. The second was during the Polaris War, until Auroran forces from the Galactic South broke through the weakened Nil'kemorya lines in that quadrant and sacked this station.                                       ÏThis was one of the three warrior caste training worlds, where the last two years of their training was carried out.  In those two years, the potential Nil'kemorya would take part in military roles that increased in danger and severity to get them used to the danger and violence inherent in the existence of a warrior.  Since the fall of the Nil'kemorya in the Polaris War, this planet has remained virtually untouched out of respect for their sacrifice.                                        The Nil'kemorya maintained three worlds for training purposes, and this was the first of them.  This was where prospective young warriors were taken at the age of four, and stayed until the age of twelve.  In that time they were trained in the various martial disciplines, from unarmed personal combat to capital ship gunnery tactics.  It was a grueling and testing time for the young potential warriors, and many dropped out to join other castes.  Nil'ar Peset itself is green-canopied, and the forests that cover its surface reverberate with the memories of many centuries of young warriors' training.                                       uThis Nil'kemorya battle-station, when it was completely operational, was used mostly as a training aid for the teaching of the young prospective warriors being trained on the world below.  It was from here that all Nil'kemorya for the last five centuries of their existence received their first space familiarization and combat lessons.                                       5Nil'ar Riai was the second in the series of three warrior caste training worlds. Young prospective members of the Nil'kemorya stayed here from the ages of twelve to sixteen where, while they continued with their martial training, they spent six months at a time with the other main castes.  The reasoning behind this was that of all the castes, the warrior caste must be able to appreciate just how valuable the work of the other castes is, and how difficult their jobs are.  Many students left the Nil'kemorya during this time.                                       VThis station, which is in orbit around Nil'ar Riai, was used in the continual training of the potential young warriors housed there.  It was also where the young prospective members of the Nil'kemorya spent six months working with the Ver'ash, helping to repair any damaged ships, and healing the wounded.                                       ‘This station was manned by the Nil'kemorya to fend off incursions by Wraith herds into Polaris space.  They used to receive constant action as the tribes frequently took hostile action after wandering into Polaris space.  This station had the distinction of having the most deaths per year of any warrior caste station, mainly due to its distance from any Ver'ash facility and the unforgiving nature of the semi-intelligent Wraith.                                       'This planet was used as a supply depot for the battle station in orbit.  It was also an alternative venue for a forward training base for young warriors from the Nil'nesa system in their final stages of training.  This depended on the number of students in the final stages of learning, and on the levels of Wraith activity in this system and around Nil'nesa.  The Tre'pira, and some Federation businessmen have taken over the management of the depot, and are trying to turn it into a commercially viable business.                                       ÑThe Nil'kemorya, as the warrior caste were named, built this station here as a bulwark against any incursions from the Auroran Empire.  The Nil'kemorya had gained a great deal of respect for the warrior ethic of the Aurorans, and more than once they were surprised by the level of skill achieved by a civilization as low in technology as the Aurorans.                                        %                                       %                                      HAs they departed, the Vell-os restored their former homeworld back to what it was like before they themselves came here.  You can still sense the psychic residue of their passing.As you wander around you find yourself marvelling at the simple beauties of this pleasant and temperate world.                                        %                                      ŸThe Krypt-tokh protected this system from the forces of the old Colonial Council by releasing part of their conscious minds into their nanites, creating a new life form that would become known in later centuries as the Krypt.  When the time came for the Vell-os to finally move beyond this physical universe, the Krypt-mind willingly gave back what the Krypt-tokh had given it, at the expense of losing several centuries of development.                                        %                                      ?Over four centuries ago, the P'aedt had a disagreement with the Ver'ash over who should have rights to a particular system.  After decades of wrangling, the Tre'pira came in to adjudicate, but unfortunately both sides disliked the settlement and rejected it.  In response, the heads of the Ver'ash and the P'aedt were assassinated by a member of the Tre'pira, and suddenly there was civil war.  Iusia, the head of the Nil'kemorya, after agonizing for three days, led the warrior caste in a decisive campaign that incapacitated the warring castes and so ended the first and only Polaris civil war. In doing so he broke his own spirit.  After restoring order, Iusia came to this planet to die.  Out of respect for the only man who has ever stopped the Polaris from destroying themselves, the Nil'kemorya gave their leaders the title Iuso, which means 'disciple of Iusia', as they viewed this man with reverence above all others.  Until the day they were destroyed, the warrior caste did not allow any member of another caste to set foot on this planet.                                       ûThe warriors who were patrolling this system when Ory'hara visited it the final time say that this planet simply came into existence at around the same time as Ory'hara vanished off their sensors.In their last official act while still nominally a government of their people, the Polaris Ruling Council named this planet Ar'Za Ory'hara as a memorial to the {G "man" "woman"} who guided them toward their destiny.  The Polaris and their descendants revere this {G "man" "woman"} above all others, which is odd when you realize that {G "he" "she"} was the one that suggested they take the action which led to their demise as a nation.                                        %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       %                                       
Diva is right on the edge of civilized space.  It borders on both the Auroran Empire and the navigation hazards of the wastes of the Vell-os wars.  Currently under siege by Auroran forces who have recently taken ownership of the surrounding system, Diva has had to increase security measures to keep the Auroran warriors off the surface of this beautiful world.  It is precisely this sort of occurrence that keeps stopping people from flocking to Diva to take up more permanent residence.                                       jIt seemed for decades that, despite every effort, Brass would forever founder as a backwater.  However, out of the blue, a group of retired merchants intervened.  Known as the Somta group, they began by eliminating the criminal underworld, and encouraging as much local talent as possible.  In the space of a year they were in charge and had begun building the necessary infrastructure for basic services.  While things are still far from good, there is already a definite improvement.The next step will be to elect a representative to sit on the Federation Council.  That is still some time off, but already a young local named Geoff Daniels has started helping Brass in its economic recovery, and is viewed as a popular choice.  The way Somta and Mr. Daniels are going, it will not be long before Brass has a self-sustaining economy.                                       You cannot help but feel impressed with the complete change you see around you.  Only a few short years ago, this planet was a cesspool in which most of its inhabitants barely scraped out a living.  Now it is a bustling hive of activity.  With the opening of the new shipyards, the change of name and the landslide election of Mr. Geoff Daniels (now Councillor Daniels) to the Federation Council, the future of 'Nova' looks bright.As you leave the spaceport you notice a small stone tablet placed above the exit to the spaceport so as to catch the eye.  You see the names of the Somta group written there in thanks for their tireless efforts in turning Brass around, and you cannot help but feel respect towards the men that made all of this possible.                                       ·You wrinkle your nose in disgust.  It seems as if the impossible has occurred - Brass has gotten worse.  The stench says it all.  Even the bar has shut down.  You wonder just how long it will be before even the hardiest merchants stop coming here and Brass loses contact with the rest of the galaxy.  In your opinion, that day cannot come soon enough.  You silently resolve to leave this place, and to return here as rarely as you possibly can.                                       |What only a few years ago was a world populated by an artistic, cultured, and hospitable people is now a barely habitable barren rock.  A casualty of the constant sniping between the Wild Geese and the Associated Guild of Free Traders, even now the former residents are busy trying to 'terraform' this world back to some of its former glory...                                       æThe people of New Ireland have been hard at work, desperately trying to make their world habitable once again.  The sheer courage of these people as they toil away at a seemingly impossible task touches your heart and brings tears to your eyes.  Most of the radioactive soil has been shipped off-planet by hand, and the colonists are spending most of their time out in their artificial forests trying to fend off the many bio-organisms that were introduced to kill off the planet's biosphere.You feel proud to be able to associate yourself with these people.  Whether they succeed or fail, none will be able to say that they gave up without fighting to the death.                                       You are greeted by a world that is a testament to the spirit and courage of its people.  What was a desolate wasteland only a few years ago has been returned to its former glory.  Yes, there are still a few rogue bio-agents that will cause outbreaks of disease for years to come, but one by one the people of this world will track them down and eradicate them.  Once again, the people of New Ireland can return to the arts, crafts, and festivals which renowned throughout the galaxy.With an immense rush of pride you realize that you were instrumental in restoring this world back to what it should be, but the pride is immediately tempered by the knowledge of your involvement in the events that originally caused it to be destroyed...                                        %                                      aA recent treacherous attack by Auroran forces has left Menin severely damaged.  Rebuilding teams are working around the clock, but it will take several months to clean up and completely rebuild this outpost.  Until then, all of the scientific research has been put on hold or shipped to other laboratories elsewhere in Federation space.  In the meantime, security has also been stepped up, and the Bureau is investigating the entire incident to piece together what exactly went on, and to better understand how a fairly high-security facility was infiltrated and attacked.                                       êThis agricultural paradise was amongst the earliest systems to be settled by humanity, and has had humans on it for over a thousand years now.  It was also one of the earliest systems recontacted by Earth Government (the direct predecessor to the Federation) forces after the many hundreds of years without hyperspatial capabilities following the demise of the old Colonial Council.This planet deals in primary industries, and does not have the capability to process or highly refine the food and ores that are in abundance on this lush world, but that is exactly the way the largely conservative inhabitants like it.                                       fIt seemed for decades that Brass would remain a backwater, until a group of retired merchants intervened, out of the blue.  Known as the Somta group, they began by eliminating the criminal underworld, and encouraging as much local talent as possible.  In barely a year they were in charge and had begun building the necessary infrastructure for basic services.  While things are still far from good, there is already a definite improvement.The next step will be to elect a representative to sit on the Federation Council.  Already a young local named 'Geoff Daniels' has started helping Brass in its recovery, and is viewed as a popular choice.  The way that 'Mr. Daniels' and Somta are going, Brass will soon have a self-sustaining economy.  Apparently your boss has plans that make everything you are involved in seem short-term.                                       cYou cannot help but feel impressed with the changes you see around you.  Only a few years ago, this planet was a cesspool in which most of its inhabitants barely scraped out a living.  Now it is a bustling hive of activity.  With the opening of the new shipyards, the change of name, and the landslide election of 'Geoff Daniels' (now 'Councillor Daniels') to the Federation Council, the future of 'Nova' looks bright.As you leave the spaceport you notice a small stone tablet placed above the exit to the spaceport so as to catch the eye.  You see the names of the Somta group written there in thanks for their efforts in turning Brass around, and you cannot help but respect the men that made all of this possible.  However, your cynicism leads you to wonder why Frandall engineered this whole charade to get onto the Council.                                       !The Infrared Missile uses the simplest of tracking systems to deliver its small payload.  It's not much to look at, but it's cheap and promiscuously available.  The weapon itself can be loaded into a number of aftermarket launchers, including several highly illegal handheld ones used by Rebellion Vacuum Soldiers.Requires: Missile Weapons License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       hUntil recently this world was completely uninhabitable for humans, and even environment suits were barely enough.  But thanks to a team of terraformers from 'Nirvana Terraforming and Stellar Engineering' <pty ltd>, who spent nearly a decade working on its environment, is now something of a paradise, and the results speak for themselves.  The only drawback is that the atmosphere here is a little thin; at sea level it is comparable to living at altitude on Earth.  But still it is universally thought of as being the first successful terraforming project completed by humanity.                                       ˚The various versions of the Pyrogenesis Compound Blaster have been the standard defense armament for Federation ships for the past 300 years.  Utilizing a magnetic containment bottle to collect photon packets before release, the Compound Blaster is capable of generating a kinetic impulse disproportionately large for a weapon of its meager power requirements.  The version designed for small ships, the Light Compound Blaster is easily held by the smallest of fighters.                                       iThe famous Light Blaster, but on a turret which Pyrogenesis copied from its younger rival Rauther.  The turret mechanism is very light and agile, making this an ideal anti-fighter weapon.  Again, this weapon is not able to be mounted on fighters, although independent traders may attempt to mount one on a largish freighter.                                       9The Medium Blaster really comes into its own when it becomes turreted.  Combined with sophisticated Glenn:Cyber targeting scopes, these weapons score easy hits on all but the smallest space vessels.  The Medium Blaster Turret does tend to lag a little on the faster capital ships.  The IDA Frigate mounts two of these batteries as standard.Requires: Heavy Weapons License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       5So big and slow that only a turret mechanism allows it to hit anything at all, the Heavy Blaster Turret is the grand-daddy of the Pyrogenesis line of directed energy firepower.  Mounted as standard on the E-60 Carrier, the pride of the Federation fleet, the Heavy Blaster chews through shields and armor alike.  The short range and slow speed of the enormous packets limit the effectiveness of this weapon at anything other than boarding range.Requires: Heavy Weapons {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       —Comprised of quadruple Pyrogenesis Blaster Lasers on the most technically advanced turret they offer, the Quad Light Blaster system comes with a guarantee that it will dispose of your hostile fighter problems once and for all.  Shipboard gunners salivate at the thought of being permanently assigned to one of these beauties.  While the QLB System is heavy, as a point defence weapon system it automatically tracks, without any input from the bridge, incoming missiles and enemy fighter squadrons and pours a truly prodigious amount of fire into them, creating havoc.Requires: Heavy Weapons License, Protective Technologies {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÚKayel Solutions (KLSol) have won 'Best of Show' 26 years running for their clever adaptation of the Infrared Missile launcher.  Based on the launcher mounted by the F-29 Anaconda and the E-41 Destroyer, the KLSol version is a tightly integrated set of standardized components that can easily swap between a hundred different classes of ship with only a minor, dealer serviceable tweak of the software.  The KLSol IR Missile Launcher does produce a fair amount of heat for such a small unit, but it's easily compensated for.Requires: Missile Weapons License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ΩGLiMMER, a band of propellerheads turned pro, created the first modern radar guided missile and launcher system way back in 2045 AD.  This design, produced under license by KLSol, is practically identical to that original design, albeit with KLSol's usual software driver genius.  You can mount this unit in any spacefaring vessel with enough expansion space to hold it.  There have even been some reports that it has been successfully incorporated into Auroran vessels!Requires: Missile Weapons License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       aRadar as a concept and as a useable weapons guidance system has been around since the middle of the twentieth century AD.  As humanity reached for the stars they brought their technology with them, and radar, which is not reliant on a medium for effectiveness, quickly became a necessary tool for guiding missiles.  This modern radar guided missile is a cheap GLiMMER knock-off.Requires: Missile Weapons License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       	Gravimetric missiles require a very stable and well shielded position from which to get their bearings on a target.  The GLi-tech corporation ( which was formerly known as GLiMMER, before a 120 NC name change for legal purposes) makes and sells the only non-military implementation of the gravimetric missile system.  The monopoly market share that GLi-tech enjoys does not bode well for the price.Requires: Missile Weapons {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÁGravimetric missiles lock onto the mass signature of a target.  They cannot be jammed by any known means, and they carry the biggest payload of any missile on the open market.  They are also far and away the most expensive.  For those willing to pay the price, the Gravimetric missile will almost never miss its target, and will destroy smaller ships with one hit.Requires: Missile Weapons {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ﬂThe launcher for the new Etheric Wake missile is a streamlined unit perhaps as long as three fully grown men.  It contains ultra high-tech cybernetic connectors for the next generation of onboard ship computers, and damping field generators for the positron warhead that the evil-looking missile carries.  Cooling vents longer than baseball bats hiss and squeal as the EW missiles load into place inside it.Requires: Missile Weapons License                                       6Because of the unique graviton emissions of the Wraith, a new targetable fire-and-forget weapon had to be devised to combat them.  The Etheric Wake missile uses a little-known principle of subspace disturbance to track Wraith through their flight path by detecting their wash in space-time.  Since the Wraith and the Polaris both use Etheric Wave hyperdrives (although the Wraith version is much more sophisticated), it has been theorized that this weapon will work well versus Polaris jamming.Requires: Missile Weapons License                                        ©An underslung rack for the self-loading Raven Rockets.  No guidance system is present; this is simply a holder for the rocket packs.                                       ^Raven Rockets are the simplest chemical explosive projectile you can get.  They are fast, but they have small payloads and are unguided.  Raven Rockets can be devastating when multiple launch systems are installed, and because they have no active targeting systems most 'Point Defense' systems cannot target them.                                       OThe Raven Rocket turret mounts two unguided pods on a swivel base.  It comes with a fairly basic tie-in to your vessel's sensors which allows it to track targets.  You'll still need to maneuver fairly well to get the rockets to hit small targets, but these pods allow slower ships to use the Raven.                                       eThis weapon is a small airlock mounted in the underside of a ship.  Simply place a grenade in the receptacle provided and then pull the lever.  The airlock will cycle, and then a mechanical arm-launch system will fling the projectile backwards.  The simplicity of the launcher is reflected by its bargain-basement price.                                        The Stellar Grenade is a device designed to throw pursuing ships off your tail.  Dropping a few of these little gems out the hatch will keep adversaries off your tail, or make them regret it if they follow you.  Bigger targets will be slowed a little.                                       ˘Polarons are the new kid on the block in Direct Energy Weapon (DEW) systems.  Polarons pack a punch with little generation loss, although they are hard to control out of the barrel.  In some ways this cannon is rather like a Tesla coil in space, as it arcs rather than fires.  You will need to be close to other ships to use this weapon effectively.  The Polaron generation technology is very new, so it's also very expensive.Requires: Exotic Ships & Weapons License                                       $The Rauther Power Industries Ion Particle Cannon is amongst the most powerful directed energy weapons in the known galaxy.  Mounted on a 360°/270° firing platform, the weapons accuracy is unmatched, delivering incredibly destructive pulses of stripped helium nuclei, and its rotating phase excels in damaging shields and armor. The only major drawbacks of the Ion Cannon are its heavy power requirement and large mass.Requires: Exotic Ships & Weapons {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ‘The Fusion Pulse Cannon, like most Aurora technology, is both crude and brutal.  However, the weapon's stocky build and inefficient containment fields still provide a highly effective energy packet.  Perhaps the most interesting feature of the weapon is the fact that the fusion pulses leave the barrel of the weapon while still at meta-reactive temperatures.  It is for this reason that the FPC should not be fired at close range.                                       ‚As the FPC is cheap and easy to build, the Auroran houses have opted to mount a turreted version of the cannon on almost all ships.  It's rare that you'll find even a freighter without the weapon, in either its forward-firing or its turreted versions.  The turret adds some tracking to the otherwise slow FPC blasts, but the overall design is very effective.  Just ask the Federation military commanders who have lost armadas to this chunky gun.                                       ﬁWraithii are tiny capsules of polarons contained in a mar-graviton field.  A Wraith Cannon fires these capsules via simple biomechanics, and the capsules burst on impact, releasing a powerful kinetic force.  These guns are mounted as standard on the Dragon, and can be retrofitted to most ships on the market.  The Nil'kemorya keep a careful eye on these weapons, however, and only the most favored of outsiders are ever allowed to buy them.                                       ﬁThe polarons for Wraithii are harvested by deep-space mining scoops run by the Tre'pira.  These polarons are then shipped to P'aedt facilities for encapsulation in the mar-graviton field that will hold them until they impact at a speed of greater than 20 kilometers an hour.  Needless to say, the final packets are handled with kid gloves.  It is a testament to the Tre'pira and the P'aedt that no accidents with Wraithii have ever occurred.                                       Perhaps the only weapon to require a ship to be built around it, the Capacitor Pulse Laser stores the energy created in Polaris fusion reactors to be discharged in a single beam lasting only a few short seconds.  For that short time, armor and shields may as well be wisps of smoke for all the good they will do against the fury of the most violent energy discharge mankind has yet created.  Arachnids and Scarabs are both built around CPL systems{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ˆThe BioRelay is a thin laser beam weapon mounted in the framework of Striker and Manta vessels.  The BioRelay is a series of cellular storage capacitors that discharge linearly to provide a steady power curve for the beam.  As such, the heat generated from the laser body is minimal, which keeps the size down for the Manta and Striker, and yet packs a punch compared to packeted weapons such as the Federation blasters{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       !This launcher ties into a ship's main computer core (or neural network, in the case of Polaris ships).  It tracks a target ship, and then calculates the complex field generation parameters for the Polaron Flux Coils in the tube.  By varying the quantity, spin and charge of the newly generated polarons, the tube can give the polaron 'virtual structure' a good bead on a target before the preprogrammed field generator in the heart of the energy burst takes over{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ≥Having no mass, the Polaron Torpedo is a masterpiece of non-corporeal engineering.  The charge and spin of the huge polaron virtual structure is set by the launcher at firing time.  The chaos mathematics of the field interaction is calculated by the neural net of the Polaris vessel, which makes sure that the field will collapse in such a way that it will steer toward the target from the tube.  A tiny field generator hovering in the middle of the torpedo modifies the field strengths to correct for mid-flight target variations, and provides the only part of the weapon system that has any mass whatsoever{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       PA few days is all it takes to convert sections of your ship into a launchbay for Viper fighters.  The conversion comes complete with everything you'll need to refuel, re-arm and service a maximum force of four Vipers.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       YWith the rapid development of space flight, it was inevitable that sports (particularly racing) would come to fruition sooner rather than later.  Power Sled racing stood up to the challenge.  A few intrepid hot-rodders noticed that one particular sled, the Viper, took very well to a bit of extra weight in the form of armor and armament.  With a little engine tweaking, these modified Vipers, designated F-23, were selected by the Federation as the mainstay of their fighter wings.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                        ÛAnacondas can provide long-range intercept capability for a vessel.  This bay allows you to outfit a maximum of two of them.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       _The main problem with the Viper as a fighter craft is a complete lack of any form of explosive projectile.  A new variant that has the 'long distance kill' capacity, based on the Viper chassis, has been the Federation's choice of Space Superiority Fighter ever since.  Although this ship, named the Anaconda, suffers from a slightly slower acceleration and top speed than the Viper, its ability to destroy enemy fighters before that fighter can get within gun range more than compensates.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       &The Auroran shipwrights can install the electromag catapults for Firebird launching quite quickly.  The conversion also includes the appropriate Firebird housing facilities, allowing for a maximum of six of them{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       RFirebirds are the main Auroran fighter.  Their engines are simple, to say the least.  Their task is to protect the Phoenix from attack by smaller fighters such as the Viper, while the Phoenix take on the heavier ships.  The Firebird is slower than the Viper, but not by enough to give the Viper a decisive edge.  Battles between the two often come down to individual skill.  Many a Federation/Auroran border skirmish has come to a halt while the two sides watch a Firebird/Viper dogfight between renowned pilots{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       5Phoenix bays are noisy, smelly and generally fairly grimy.  If you can put up with this, you'll have some serious mobile firepower at your disposal, as the bay is capable of housing up to three of these vicious little fighters{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       üThe Phoenix is yet another example of the Auroran will to survive.  The Phoenix is slow and turns badly.  One would think that it would be target practice for enemy pilots.  It is, but it has one redeeming feature: it has almost as good armor plating as a Thunderhead.  They plough through fire corridors with impunity, and attack in groups to maximize firepower.  The Phoenix can wear a missile from an Anaconda, but a Viper will stay on its tail and pound it mercilessly.  Suffice to say that Phoenix pilots suffer the greatest rate of attrition of any group in the Auroran armed forces{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ˝The schematics of this Thunderhead bay look impressive, but you're a bit unsure as to how you'll fit it to your current vessel, although adding the capability to launch as many as three Thunderheads from your ship could never hurt.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       The Thunderhead is so named for its main weapon, the Thunderhead Lance.  The Lance is a solid beam of coherent laser light.  In some ways, the Thunderhead has the worst reputation of any fighting vessel in the Galaxy, not because of turn ratings or levels of firepower, but because this assault fighter is the weapon of choice of pirates, privateers and corsairs throughout known space.  It has enough armor to allow it to go up against large ships, and enough speed to allow it to catch most craft that try to flee.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       Mantas require food and water, as well as sunlight.  This bay provides for up to six of them with all of that, plus the required power taps for recharging all their BioRelay lasers{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       óA pilot in the Nil'kemorya comes of age at 16.  It is then that he meets the Manta that will be his fighter and personal transport for as long as he lives, no matter how far he advances in rank.  Grown from a DNA sample taken from the pilot when he was initiated into the Nil'kemorya, the Manta will bond with him in a very personal way.  These fighters are not only swift and powerful, they are also the most 'alive' of the Polaris ships, having approximately the same level of sentience as smart dogs.  It incorporates a potent bio-organic laser into its nose as its only weapon{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       "If it ain't broke, don't fix it," is the old maxim, and the Hail Chaingun holds true to this time-honored principle.  A simple caseless round is loaded into one of the two gatling breaches, and liquid propellant is injected behind the shell.  The Hail has a cyclic rate of 3000 RPM, and has enough ammo on board for an extended firefight{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       7Simple caseless rounds have been around for longer than most historians can remember, and the production of them is so old-tech as to be almost a backyard occurrence throughout most of Known Space.  The Aurorans in particular produce enormous amounts of it in order to fuel their almost constant war efforts (whether it be against the Federation or amongst themselves){b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       !Railguns are simple enough in concept; get a pellet made from a highly conductive, but dense metal (something cheap, like copper or gold), and place it between two rails (one a cathode, the other an anode).  Charge the rails with a homopolar generator, and there you have it: one super-high-speed metal pellet.  First developed by Sir Marcus Oliphant as a scientific instrument in the twentieth century AD, the railgun is now standard armament on all Auroran capital ships.  This version fires 100mm pellets.                                       :A slightly larger version of the 100mm railgun, this weapon requires a much larger generator, and a power supply to match.  The 150mm pellets are made from a copper/cadmium mix, and are drop-forged with care by Auroran weaponsmiths{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ⁄The mother of all railguns.  Firing a 200mm copper/cadmium pellet, this railgun looks like nothing less than a deck gun from an ancient Earth ocean-going warship.  The electrode rails get so scored during battle that they must be replaced at every landfall.  Luckily the rails are very cheap and easy to manufacture.  Some have even been constructed of old armor plates in times of emergency{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÖWhile railguns are normally fixed-position weapons, something turreted was required for the immense Auroran Carrier.  Thus the evergreen 100mm railgun was mounted on a Storm Chaingun swivel mount.  The combo has proved quite successful, with several other fighting ships being retrofitted with similar guns{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       JThe EMP Torpedo was constructed from stolen Federation technology.  It is an awesome weapon, with only two real uses: mass destruction and ionization.  The Pirate Carrier carries four EMP torps as a blockade running tool; simply fire the weapon at the opposing line, and wait for them to scatter like sheep.  Not to be detonated at close range{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       çWhile the basic design of the Fusion Reactor has remained unchanged for nearly three centuries, it still enjoys widespread use in the ships run by all castes (except those of the Nil'kemorya) as it more than fills their energy requirements.  When asked if Polaris freighters and pleasure craft will ever require greater power sources, members of the Ver'ash shrug their shoulders and answer that if that day ever comes, there are already more advanced energy reactors being used in warrior vessels which could be relatively easily converted for non-military applications{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       üUntil recently, the mighty Federation Carrier had one significant weakness: its reactor was not powerful enough for these enormous ships to operate for very long in sustained battle operations.  With the advent of the Thorium Reactor, Federation Carriers can now spend much longer out on patrol without having to come in for a refit{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       6This reactor is the mainstay of the Federation fleet, and can easily handle the energy requirements of most vessels, although it struggles a little with the energy needs of the enormous Federation Carrier.  However, for all but the largest of capital ships, the fission reactor is more than sufficient for any energy output{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       –The invention of the carbon fiber technology has been lost in the turbulent eleven century history of mankind's adventures into space.  Easy to produce and very inexpensive, carbon fiber shielding has been added to ships for nearly as long as humanity has been in space, or so historians say.  At the end of the day, adding carbon fiber composites to your ship gives you a decent increase to your armor without draining your coffers or using up enormous amounts of your free space.Requires: Protective Technologies License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ïThroughout the Empire, armor has been piled onto warships in an effort to make up for shortcomings in Auroran particle shielding.  The slabs of matrix steel Auroran pilots and warriors add to their ships is indicative of this mindset; heavy but very strong, these enormous chunks of metal afford excellent protection against whatever unfriendly fire may come your way.                                       ZUntil very recently, Federation scientists, while having a vastly superior knowledge of particle shielding, were lagging their Auroran counterparts in armor technology.  With the recent invention of a commercially viable process to create a lattice of titanium and a few other minor ingredients, it is hoped that before long the vessels of the Federation Navy will begin to not only exhibit superior shielding when compared to their Auroran foes, but also superior armor.Requires: Protective Technologies {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ˛Nearly a century ago, P'aedt scientists working with Ver'ash engineers stumbled across a biological process that could be adapted to allow their ships to literally extrude carbon atoms around themselves, forming a diamond shell.  Since then, Polaris shielding technology has been greatly enhanced, but many of the Nil'kemorya in particular still ask their Ver'ash cousins to modify their ships to also gain this armor advantage{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       éThis software package will increase your onboard computer's ability to differentiate between the size of the sensor returns off any ships in your local area.  After installation, you should be able to detect the approximate mass of any ship within range of your ship's scanners, allowing you to differentiate between large and small ships on your radar display.                                       ıThis simple modification to a ship's standard sensor system software will allow it to differentiate between the weapons states of ships within your scanning range.  Ships which have their weapons powered up and their sensors locked on you will show up as hostile (red), ships that come from recognized friendly governments will show up as friendly (green), unless they are acting in a hostile manner towards you, and all other ships will show up as neutral (blue).                                       5This handy piece of software automatically contacts spaceport computers via your comm system whenever you land and arranges for them to recharge your ship, saving you the worry. Of course, the cost remains the same regardless of whether you have the Auto-recharger or not.                                       ·Without this piece of equipment, the chances of you surviving an encounter with overwhelming forces is greatly decreased.  Essentially, the auto-eject is very simple: when it detects your armor state fall to zero it launches your eject mechanism without waiting for any input from the pilot.  With a nearly 100% success rate, this piece of hardware is something of a must for anybody foolhardy enough to brave the spaceways in this day and age.                                       By the time you factor in the costs of training, qualified pilots are, almost without fail, far more valuable than the ships they fly.  So most governments and major organizations fit this device to their vessels to protect their investment.  Though fairly expensive, a fair number of independent pilots who, quite understandably, highly value their own lives, also use escape pods.  Unfortunately, no insurance company worth its salt would ever offer ship destruction insurance.  Let's face it, with the current unstable climate, travelling the space-lanes is hardly the safest way to make a living...                                       ÃThis simple upgrade takes up 15 tons of your free mass and gives you 10 tons more cargo space.  Common throughout nearly all the known galaxy, the Cargo Expansion upgrade is used by freighter captains everywhere to increase their hold size.  As an unfortunate side-effect of the process it also decreases the space available for weapons, so think twice before purchasing if you are going to be operating in dangerous areas.                                       ‹A large number of starship captains, from the earliest pioneers over a millennia ago to those travelling the enormous voids between the stars today, will attest to the value of this simple upgrade.  If you are prepared to give up 15 tons of cargo space, it will give you 10 more tons of free mass, allowing you that much more room for weapons for personal protection.  In a dangerous galaxy, it would pay to seriously consider this module.                                       ”The cargo retool is similar to the cargo expansion in that it exchanges free mass for cargo space, but instead of adding a module to do it the refitters retool a portion of your weapon space and turn it into cargo space.  It gives a better return on your space (12 tons of free mass turns into 10 tons of cargo space), but, unlike the cargo expansion, it is not a reversible procedure.  That space will remain cargo space forever.                                       OThe mass retool does the exact opposite of the cargo retool; it exchanges cargo space for free mass.  Like the cargo retool, it gives a better return on your space than the mass expansion equivalent (12 tons of cargo space turns into 10 tons of free mass), but it too is a non-reversible procedure.                                       8Federation particle shielding technology has always been vastly ahead of anything the Auroran Empire has ever had, and the shield recharger is a prime example of this.  All ships with particle shielding can gradually recharge any lost shield power, but the shield recharger has a separate power source specifically attuned to your shield frequencies, allowing raw power to be pumped into your shields and causing them to recharge faster.Requires: Protective Technologies {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       4"We strive always to ensure that we achieve the balance of a true warrior," explains a gray-cloaked Nil'kemorya warrior.  "And our ships, when we fly into battle with them, must become extensions of ourselves, and must therefore be balanced also.  If we wield great weapons of destruction, they must also have excellent protection, as they will become a target by the enemy.  The organic shield increases the restorative power of our shields, allowing us to maintain our balance.{P30"\"" "\"REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ˘At the end of the day, the greater your shields, the longer you will survive.  Most Federation starship captains, if they can get their hands on the necessary funding, will leap at the chance to get ahold of one of these Sigma Shipyards S-72 Shield Buffers.  In simple terms, the S-72 detects the outer layer of your particle shielding and adds another layer on top of that.Requires: Protective Technologies {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ˝As with all Polaris ships, everything is now bioengineered, including the organs that produce the particle shielding.  However, like everything else they do, the Ver'ash have the capability of growing new organs to either 'heal' existing damage on ships or to 'add' a new organ to a ship, enhancing its capabilities.  If more shielding is wanted, then they can cause your ship to grow more shield organelles to accommodate you{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ≥The ability to dump raw power into your propulsion system to temporarily increase your acceleration and top speed has been around since we were trapped within Earth's biosphere, and has followed us out into space.  The afterburner chews power at a prodigious rate, but losing a little power is better than getting caught in the middle of a fleet battle{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ﬂA Port & Polish is just that, a cleanup of your ship and its drive systems, allowing for more efficient engine usage.  Anybody seeking to get that little bit of extra acceleration out of their ship could use one of these little tune-ups{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ≥This is the engine modification inspired by the inbred mechanical genius 'Skinny'.  Without getting too technical, it dramatically increases the speed and acceleration of your ship, and as everyone knows, the faster your ship, the harder you are to catch.  Anybody who lives close to the legal edge needs more speed.  Merchants need it to try and keep away from the pirates, the pirates need it to keep ahead of the merchants and to keep away from the authorities, and the authorities could use it to catch the pirates.  If you need to get out to hyperspace range in a hurry, then this is the upgrade for you{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ﬂThis is another Owen Greylock special.  He came up with the idea when he saw ancient drawings of aerial fighter-craft that had small panels on either side of their exhaust pipes to direct the thrust in one direction or another and enhance maneuverability.  It took him ten years to perfect, but now the Greylock system is used by nearly all pirates throughout the Known Galaxy, and more than a few merchants and free-lance starship captains have also chosen to add this upgrade to their ships{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       lWhen he joined the Rebellion, Mr. Donald Chick and his engineers took with them many of Sigma Shipyards experimental designs, and one of them that has come into fruition was the alluvial damper.  Strictly speaking, it is more of a psychological damper: it lessens the EM field strengths created by a hyperspace field, but only within the living compartments of a starship.  The end result is that humans can therefore endure the more powerful hyperspace fields without mental breakdown, and so starships can travel faster between systems{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ·Donald Chick's expertise does not just stop at starship design and engineering; it also extends to hyperspatial navigational computational modules.  When you link this module into your navi-computer, it will be able to calculate hyperspatial trajectories much earlier than normal, as it includes an incredibly advanced gravitational compensation algorithm which allows you to enter hyperspace from much closer to the system center.  Many Rebel starship captains will attest to its effectiveness{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ÛThroughout the galaxy there are navigational hazards that affect your sensors, and the only problem with increasing power to your sensors is that any more power would start creating EM fields which would render your sensors useless.  Federation scientists on Menin recently found a new, commercially viable, way of increasing the shielding on the solid state electronics which then allows for more powerful sensors that do not interfere with their own operation.                                        ≤This map will automatically update your ship's computer with information about the location and contents of the systems surrounding this one.                                        ûWhile your skills are still rudimentary, and you are far from powerful, you still have some capability to defend yourself                                         Your telepathic capabilities afford you some increased protection against possible hazards.                                        ÿWith your power growing and your skills increasing, you telepathic capabilities afford you a fair amount of protection against the many and various hazards of the modern universe.                                       ”The cargo retool is similar to the cargo expansion in that it exchanges free mass for cargo space, but instead of adding a module to do it the refitters retool a portion of your weapon space and turn it into cargo space.  It gives a better return on your space (12 tons of free mass turns into 10 tons of cargo space), but, unlike the cargo expansion, it is not a reversible procedure.  That space will remain cargo space forever.                                        ≤Your skill and power would be the envy of most Vell-os galaxy wide.  It affords you excellent protection against the hazards of the universe.                                       OThe mass retool does the exact opposite of the cargo retool; it exchanges cargo space for free mass.  Like the cargo retool, it gives a better return on your space than the mass expansion equivalent (12 tons of cargo space turns into 10 tons of free mass), but it too is a non-reversible procedure.                                       Throughout the galaxy there are navigational hazards that affect your sensors, and over the last four centuries the Ver'ash and the P'aedt have been working on ways and means to overcome these problems.  The latest version can cut through even the most horrendous interference, making even the most treacherous parts of the galaxy navigable{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       ≈Throughout the galaxy there are navigational hazards that affect your sensors, and even though the Empire's scientists are not as capable as those of the Federation, they are more than capable of reverse engineering anything they find on a captured Federation vessel.  The Auroran sensor boosts are not quite as effective as those of the Federation, but only because the manufacturing processes are not of the same meticulous standard.  You will find, however, that the Auroran sensor boost is a very cheap buy{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       When Owen Greylock tinkers with a design, you can be assured that he will improve it somehow, and this sensor boost is no exception.  While the cost is enormous, the only place that you can get a better sensor array is from the Polaris, and they tend to keep their technology to themselves.  If you want the next best thing, then this is it{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                        The Storm is a sacred weather pattern in Auroran culture.  Symbolizing the power and fury of the hordes of Auroran warriors, many warriors have a thundercloud as a death tattoo, indicating that they will die in the fury of a mass offensive.  The Storm Chaingun reflects the Auroran philosophy of overwhelming the enemy with numbers; the Storm is effectively four Hails on a turret, and, as a point defence weapon system, is used to destroy incoming fighters and missiles with often devastating effect, and without requiring any command input from the bridge{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       `When the Heraan family were constructing the first Abomination gunboats, they discovered quite quickly that standard Fusion Pulse Cannons mounted on Abominations were unable to hit fast moving targets, due to the poor turning speed of the craft.  So was born the Fusion Pulse Turret (and later the battery version).                                       eThunderheads are built around this stocky beam unit.  The Lance is a simple laser; nothing more, nothing less.  It is a very highly charged weapon, but it is effective only at short range.  As the best way to use a Lance is to almost ram the ship in question, it is a favored weapon of the Wild Geese, who consider it a divine gift.Requires: Heavy Weapons {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ıPirates know about violence, and the threat of violence.  They also know about hounding individual ships in packs.  However, they also value speed, and the Pirate Viper Bay launches them far faster than any other type of bay outside of Polaris Space, allowing them to swarm over their foes with frightening rapidity.  So despite only being able to house a maximum of four Pirate Vipers, many pirates vessels have at least one.  With one of these bays on board, you'll have a fast pack at your disposal at all times{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       …As soon as Comara released the Viper frame on the general market, a few shiploads of frames were bought up by notorious pirate shipwright Olaf Greyshoulders.  He and his crew have totally refitted the shell, and the familiar shape of its advanced armor plating hides a wealth of minor and major improvements to the basic idea.  But, as with all Greyshoulders upgrades, there is a hefty price to pay for the improved model.  It's up to you to decide whether it's worth it{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       •The TBRL is a special variant of the Polaris BioRelay Laser.  It is mounted on the Polaris Dragon as a primary weapon.  This weapon is used rather than the more powerful pulse laser, so as to limit the potential damage were a Dragon to fall into unfriendly hands; a good scientist can unravel much from a working sample of an enemy weapon{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       +The Vell-os name their weapons after the telepathic weaves used to turn their telepathic abilities into physical energy.  Thus this weapon is called the Flower Of Spring because the weave works from the ground up and includes patterns much like that of a flower.                                       The Summer Bloom is the magenta beam that is incorporated into the form of the Arrow.  A T2 Vell-os can maintain power to this weapon almost indefinitely, and the stopping power of a Bloom is stunning for such a small beam.                                       TThis instrument of destruction is an integral part of the makeup of a Vell-os Javelin.  The color of early autumn kirastei petals on Vell-os worlds, the Autumn Petal has an excellent sustained fire rate, and long range.  Only T1's have been known to be able to create the weave required for this weapon.                                       uWinter Tempest is a name spoken in dark corners by the Vell-os people.  The storm-colored arc of light has only once been used in anger.  Even then it took a T1 working at focusing the power of twenty T2's to get it to work.  It has been theorized by Vell-os scientists that a T0 would have the potential to create this beam by himself.                                       UAs your telepathic power swells, you learn a great deal more about how to project your consciousness out upon the universe.  Now, if you choose to prepare yourself correctly by selecting this ability, you can project small parts of your mind into Dart-like receptacles which will act as you command them.                                       As part of gaining the ability to project small parts of your consciousness out onto the universe, you must prepare yourself for it by deliberately setting apart portions of your telepathic energy by selecting this option.                                       ∂The leader of these hard-looking men tells you that he is capable of increasing your chances of capturing any vessel enormously."And we don't need continuous cash flow," he explains in his deep voice as his men watch on with casual alertness.  "We have all the equipment we need, and we take small amounts of profit by foraging on every ship we board.{P30"\"" "\"REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       'Most experienced traders will recommend that you buy at least one of these Sigma N41 Solar Panels.  They work by converting the energy of nearby stars, via super-efficient photo-voltaic cells, into electrical energy to continually build up charge in the superconductor loops which store the energy for later use.  The energy thus stored can the be called upon to slowly build up the reserves in your energy cells.  Comes in handy when you find yourself out of energy in an uninhabited system with no help in sight.                                       ¨Krypt has no weapons; why should she have?  As far as she is concerned, she is the only life-form in the universe.  Krypt is, however, very curious.  She will send out colonies of nanites from her roving spheres to explore strange asteroids and other phenomena.  These colonies will latch on to material in space, and start exploring the composition.  This has a devastating effect on ships.                                       ÅThe Solar Lance is the defensive mechanism of the Hyperioids.  A Hyperioid can generate a significant charge by rotating its pods around its body at a high rate of speed.  The Solar Lance uses this charge to propel photons out of the Hyperioid's feeding orifice.  The resulting beam weapon is very dangerous; contact should be avoided at all costs.                                       èThe Wraith have evolved a focused graviton beam as a territorial display, and as a weapon in mating rituals.  As the Wraith evolved into an intelligent species, their beams became defensive weapons as well.  The highly focused gravitons cause severe damage to unshielded vessels.  Armor plates of lesser ships have been known to simply shear off under the force.                                       Despite not being as powerful as that of an adult Wraith, the graviton beam produced by young Wraith is still a formidable weapon.  It gives pause to smaller ships, and can inflict serious damage on larger ships if unchecked.                                        –The children of the Wraith use their underdeveloped beams to divert the courses of small meteors in games of skill and dexterity.  They're not much good for anything else.                                       dWith the help of Polaris scientists and engineers, the Rebels were able to build cloaking devices that fold the fabric of space around a ship, leaving it undetectable by any current sensor array.  More than a few undercover Rebel ships have been fitted with this upgrade as an insurance policy against Bureau discovery.                                       Humanity has been trying to figure out ways of controlling a matter/anti-matter reaction so as to gain access to an enormous, virtually undepletable energy source for nearly two millennia.  When P'Ardandt discovered that particular high energy frequency EM fields could be used to 'resonate' with varying sized particles of matter and anti-matter, the matter/anti-matter reactor became a reality, ensuring near-limitless power to any machine connected to it{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                        2No desc req'd                                        2No desc req'd                                       ¨Just traveling the space lanes can be dangerous, what with the pirates as well as the Aurorans and the Federation fighting.  So it never hurts to have a little insurance against some of their long range attacks to give you some time to get away.  This simple system merely fires a low-power laser into the IR sensor of the incoming missile, hopefully burning it out.  The technology is still a little bit hit-and-miss, but it sure beats nothing.Requires: Protective Technologies License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       FLike the IR Jammer, this system is a cheap, low power rip-off of the military models.  It works by flooding the space directly surrounding your ship with incoherent signals.  Unfortunately, due to the low power of this model (which has more to do with legal restrictions than any engineering faults), many missiles still manage to get through.Requires: Protective Technologies License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       µThis system is the top of the line in IR missile protection.  It sends out a short laser burst at the incoming missile, disabling its sensor 'eye' and causing it to wander off target.  Recent developments in this technology have improved its reliability, and very few missiles make it through its 'screen'.Requires: Protective Technologies {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÙThis is a much higher power version of the Civilian Radar Jammer.  It creates a lot more sensor interference and so is correspondingly much better at confusing the incoming missiles.  This system has recently been tested against the Aurorans radar missiles and has shown itself to be enormously effective, but it has not yet been issued to all Federation capital ships.Requires: Protective Technologies {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÍDuring their interminable wars, the first missile to be used successfully by the Aurorans was the IR missile. For a while they were produced in huge quantities, but now, due to the effectiveness of this system, they are all but extinct within the Auroran Empire.  Even the Federation has copied its design of firing a laser at the sensor 'eye' of the incoming missile for their systems as it is so effective{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ûOnly recently have the Aurorans managed to develop the technology to have any effect against radar guided missiles.  They were able to salvage an old Federation radar counter-measures package and deconstruct it.  The capabilities of the resulting system are still years behind those of the Federation, but it is better than nothing{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       9Although very few non-military Polaris ships venture out of Polaris space, for the sake of safety, a counter-measures system to foil the most common types of missile tracking (infra-red and radar) is available to all Polaris ships{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       Unlike their civilian counterparts, the ships of the Nil'kemorya are forced to deal with hostile forces quite often.  To help them deal with the problem, P'aedt scientists and Ver'ash engineers have come up with this system that detects the electron movements common to most guidance systems and then shorts them out by creating an electromagnetic field in the surrounding space that is directly inverse to the fields of the incoming missiles{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       rStolen from the Federation military by General Cade 'Sundown' Smart, this system has been tinkered with by Donald Chick and his staff of engineers, and while they have made a few minor improvements, the end result is barely different from the original Federation designs in effectiveness{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ·Unlike their Federation counterparts, the Rebels have rushed this piece of equipment into production to make it standard throughout their fleet.  Already all the capital ships carry them, and it will not be long before the heavy interceptors get them also.  Of course, the Rebel fleet is much smaller than that of the Federation, so it is a lot easier to get all the new technology out to its ships{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       <This is another Olaf Greyshoulders special.  He took the recent Federation improvements in radar countermeasures and combined them with their already excellent infra-red systems.  The end result is a little bulkier, but performs both jobs admirably.  'Free traders' from all over are buying it, and Olaf is making a quiet killing{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                        ⁄As your abilities grow, you are soon able to discern the workings of guided missiles from background space.  It is a simple matter of twisting the surrounding space to confuse them.                                       ·Unlike their Federation counterparts, the Rebels have rushed this piece of equipment into production to make it standard throughout their fleet.  Already all the capital ships carry them, and it will not be long before the heavy interceptors get them also.  Of course, the Rebel fleet is much smaller than that of the Federation, so it is a lot easier to get all the new technology out to its ships{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       <With your telepathic senses, you can reach out and observe the physical nature of the universe around.  The further out you get, the harder it is to make out distinctive features, but it does allow you a greater understanding of the local area of the universe than any human map.                                        2No desc req'd                                        2No desc req'd                                       (Wraithii are tiny capsules of polarons contained in a mar-graviton field.  A Wraith Cannon fires these capsules via simple biomechanics, and the capsules burst on impact, releasing a powerful kinetic force.  These guns are mounted as standard on the Dragon, a Polaris vessel, but can be retrofitted to most ships on the market.  Ever since this technology was stolen from the Polaris in a daring raid, Federation scientists, while capable of duplicating the technology, have been having problems understanding it...                                       ôThe polarons for Wraithii are harvested by deep-space mining scoops manned usually by hard-core prospectors.  These polarons are then shipped to military installations for encapsulation in the mar-graviton field (a type of field that Federation scientists are still struggling to understand) that will hold them until they impact at a speed of greater than 20 kilometers an hour.  Needless to say, the final packets are handled with kid gloves.  It is a testament to the safety protocols put in place by the Bureau that only a few minor accidents have ever occurred since they stole the plans for this weapon from the Polaris...                                       õMost traders who have been working in space for more than a few years have at least one of these fitted onto their vessels.  In over a thousand years this simple design of several interlocking superconductor rings has remained virtually unchanged and has provided extra energy storage for countless numbers of ships, giving them that extra jump that everyone so often needs.                                       õHeavy Weapons License:The Holder of this License is able to purchase the following items classed as 'Heavy Weapons' by the Federation Security Council: Medium Blaster, Medium Blaster Turret, Heavy Blaster Turret (subject to military approval), Quad Light Blaster Turret (also requires 'Protective Technologies License' and subject to military approval), Thunderhead Lance.                                       {Missile Weapons License:The Holder of this License is able to purchase the following items classed as 'Missile Weapons' by the Federation Security Council: IR Missile Launcher, IR Missile, Radar Missile Launcher, Radar Missile, Gravimetric Missile Launcher (subject to military approval), Gravimetric Missile (subject to military approval).                                       òFighter Bay License:The Holder of this License is able to purchase the following items classed as 'Fighter Bays' or as 'Carried Fighters' by the Federation Security Council: Thunderhead Bay, Thunderhead, Viper Bay (subject to military approval), Viper (subject to military approval), Anaconda Bay (subject to military approval), Anaconda (subject to military approval).                                       hProtective Technologies License:The Holder of this License is able to purchase the following items classed as 'Protective Technologies' by the Federation Security Council: Quad Light Blaster Turret (also requires 'Heavy Weapons License' and subject to military approval), Carbon Fiber, Titanium Lattice (subject to military approval), Shield Recharger (subject to military approval), Shield Buffer (subject to military approval), Civilian IR Jammer, Civilian Radar Jammer, Military IR Jammer (subject to military approval), Military Radar Jammer (subject to military approval).                                       ÈThis is what happens when you own a dodgy Thorium Reactor from "Joe's Magic Thorium Reactor Saleyard(tm)".  Having forked over your hard earned, you'll be willing to bet you'll find yourself getting kicked royally in the bum as your cheapo Thorium Reactor blows.  You will probably be able to limp into port, so long as no pirates notice that you have little chance of evading them.  Of course, if you want to sell it before this happens, be our guest.                                       BThis outfit, stolen from Rauther when the engineer Tomak Gemmell defected to the Rebellion, is actually a series of radiative surfaces that radiate the energy buildup that causes ionization out into the surrounding space, allowing ships to function more fully under an ionizing attack.                                       Capital Ships License:The Holder of this License is able to purchase the following ships classed as 'Capital Ships' by the Federation Security Council: Leviathan, Pegasus, Starliner, IDA Frigate (also requires 'Capital Warships License'), Federation Destroyer (also requires 'Capital Warships License' and subject to military approval), Federation Carrier (also requires 'Capital Warships License' and subject to military approval){P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÒCapital Warships License:The Holder of this License is able to purchase the following ships classed as 'Capital Warships' by the Federation Security Council: IDA Frigate, Federation Patrol Boat (subject to military approval), Federation Destroyer (also requires 'Capital Ships License' and subject to military approval), Federation Carrier (also requires 'Capital Ships License' and subject to military approval){P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       DExotic Ships & Weapons License:The Holder of this License is able to purchase those ships and items classed as 'Exotic Ships' or as 'Exotic Weapons' and all items of any other classification as classified by the Federation Security Council{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       =The Wraith have an instinctual ability to cloak.  Much in the same way a human will put on a coat for certain situations, a Wraith will be able to cloak.  It is a fairly big mystery how this occurs, but needless to say at one moment the Wraith will be there and the next it won't.                                       £Living totally in the cold void of deep space has led to some amazing adaptations for the Wraith.  The same evolutionary forces that led to opposable thumbs for humans has also led to unbelievable advantages for the wraith in their natural environment.  While a human can run, jump and chew gum at the same time, a wraith may choose to jump at any time without slowing down to stop.                                       uThe Ver'ash, working with the P'aedt on data recovered from encounters with the Wraith, have managed to duplicate their 'cloaking' capabilities.  There is still an energy signature that can be easily be read by most sensor systems, but any ship with the Cloaking Organ is invisible to the naked eye and is extremely difficult to target.                                       ,With a great deal of research and exhaustive trials, the Ver'ash, working with the P'aedt, have improved upon their original Cloaking Organ.  No longer does the organ leave behind a noticeable energy signature, making the cloaked ship almost impossible to detect.                                       When mankind first began exploring space, one of the many things they were looking for was new sources of raw materials, and the asteroids of many systems proved to hold a relative bonanza of near-pure metals and minerals.  The Pyrogenesis Asteroid Mining Laser is the tool of choice to break up passing asteroids and to get at the contained metals.  Over the past millennia, the basic design has changed only minimally, but it still remains popular with asteroid prospectors the galaxy over.                                       zFor the would-be asteroid prospector, this is the second piece of necessary equipment.  Blowing up asteroids, while being fun, is only half the job; a prospector needs to be able to scoop up the resulting debris.  The Asteroid Scoop is simply that, a small ram-scoop that picks up any useful products released in the break-up of an asteroid.                                        2No desc req'd                                       KBy observing the Wraith, the P'aedt learned that instead of projecting hyperspace around them and then moving, they tunnelled directly into hyperspace, allowing them to hyperjump without stopping.  Now, with the experimental Tunnelling Organ, the Polaris are seeking to emulate this capability.                                       CBy observing the Wraith, the P'aedt learned that instead of projecting hyperspace around them and then moving, they tunnelled directly into hyperspace, allowing them to hyperjump without stopping.  Now, with the Tunnelling Organ, they have managed to emulate this remarkable capability.                                       ÒThe Ver'ash and the P'aedt, working together on Ver'a Se, have grown an organ that combines the tunnelling capabilities of the Wraith with more traditional hyperspace manipulation techniques. It enables a ship to change direction in hyperspace, allowing for multiple jumps to be performed as if performing a single jump.As yet, only a maximum of ten jumps are possible due to organ fatigue, but it is a major leap forward for Polaris hyperspatial technology.                                       HLike the simpler Polaron Torpedo Tube, this launcher ties into a ship's main computer core (or neural network, in the case of Polaris ships).  It tracks nearby hostile ships, and then calculates the complex field generation parameters for the Polaron Flux Coils in the tube.  By varying the quantity, spin and charge of the newly generated polarons, the tube can give the polaron 'virtual structure' allowing it to replicate itself into five separate copies that begin tracking the local hostile ships{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       BThe Polaron Multi-Torpedo takes non-corporeal engineering to the extreme.  The charge and spin of the huge polaron virtual structure is set by the launcher at firing time, much like the simpler Polaron Torpedoes.  However, in the case of the Multi-Torpedo, the chaos mathematics of the field interaction allows the neural net of the Polaris vessel to create virtual sub-structures that get activated shortly after launch, creating five simple Torpedoes all capable of attacking different targets{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       [Wraithii are tiny capsules of polarons contained in a mar-graviton field.  A Wraith Cannon fires these capsules via simple biomechanics, and the capsules burst on impact, releasing a powerful kinetic force.  These guns are mounted as standard on the Dragon, and can be retrofitted to most ships on the market.  And now that they have been modified to allow them to shoot while the parent ship is cloaked, they are even more effective.  The Nil'kemorya keep a careful eye on these weapons, however, and only the most favored of outsiders are ever allowed to buy them.                                       ﬁThe polarons for Wraithii are harvested by deep-space mining scoops run by the Tre'pira.  These polarons are then shipped to P'aedt facilities for encapsulation in the mar-graviton field that will hold them until they impact at a speed of greater than 20 kilometers an hour.  Needless to say, the final packets are handled with kid gloves.  It is a testament to the Tre'pira and the P'aedt that no accidents with Wraithii have ever occurred.                                       óThis launcher ties into a ship's main computer core (or neural network, in the case of Polaris ships).  It tracks a target ship, and then calculates the complex field generation parameters for the Polaron Flux Coils in the tube.  By varying the quantity, spin and charge of the newly generated polarons, the tube can give the polaron 'virtual structure' a good bead on a target before the preprogrammed field generator in the heart of the energy burst takes over.  And with a few relatively minor adjustments, it is now possible to use this weapon while the parent ship is cloaked{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       eHaving no mass, the Polaron Torpedo is a masterpiece of non-corporeal engineering.  The charge and spin of the huge polaron virtual structure is set by the launcher at firing time.  The chaos mathematics of the field interaction is calculated by the neural net of the Polaris vessel, which makes sure that the field will collapse in such a way that it will steer toward the target from the tube.  A tiny field generator hovering in the middle of the torpedo modifies the field strengths to correct for mid-flight target variations{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ∑Like the simpler Polaron Torpedo Tube, this launcher ties into a ship's main computer core (or neural network, in the case of Polaris ships).  It tracks nearby hostile ships, and then calculates the complex field generation parameters for the Polaron Flux Coils in the tube.  By varying the quantity, spin and charge of the newly generated polarons, the tube can give the polaron 'virtual structure' allowing it to replicate itself into five separate copies that begin tracking the local hostile ships.  And, again like the simpler version, the Multi-Torpedo Tube is also now capable of being fired while cloaked{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       BThe Polaron Multi-Torpedo takes non-corporeal engineering to the extreme.  The charge and spin of the huge polaron virtual structure is set by the launcher at firing time, much like the simpler Polaron Torpedoes.  However, in the case of the Multi-Torpedo, the chaos mathematics of the field interaction allows the neural net of the Polaris vessel to create virtual sub-structures that get activated shortly after launch, creating five simple Torpedoes all capable of attacking different targets{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÎThe schematics for this Pirate Thunderhead bay look both impressive and practical, but you're a bit unsure as to how you'll fit it to your current vessel, although having the ability to launch three Pirate Thunderheads at your foes could never hurt{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       DThe Pirate Thunderhead, like its civilian cousin, is so named for its main weapon, the Thunderhead Lance.  Upgraded beyond even the deadly capabilities of the basic Thunderhead, this pirate version has enough armor to allow it to go up against even the largest ships, and enough speed to allow it to stay with most craft that try to flee{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       õMr. Donald Chick and his engineers have spent years trying to adapt the enormous fighter bays so that they can be fitted into the relatively small ships that the Rebels have managed to get their hands on.  With it, you will be able to hold and launch up to four of the upgraded Rebel Vipers.  As far as adaptive engineering solutions go, this one certainly stands up well...                                       êWhen General (ret) Cade 'Sundown' Smart defected to the Rebellion, he brought with him plans for all Federation vessels, and also intelligence on many ships used by other governments.  With this in hand, Donald Chick and his engineers set to work building and upgrading existing ships.  The resulting variant of the Viper is virtually unmatched anywhere in space.                                       >Sigma Shipyard engineers recently came up with a relatively simple process for upgrading the standard Starbridge into the far more capable Starbridge C, most commonly known as the Chrome Valkyrie for reasons known only to its original designers.  The process takes barely 24 hours and at the end of it the new ship is ready for action.  The only drawback is that the process will strip all of your outfits from your old model and only leaves the 'standard' fittings for the Starbridge C type{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ABefore he defected, Mr. Donald Chick and his engineers were working on processes of updating older versions of spare vessels to later models.  Since then he has perfected the techniques required, and here is the resulting process to upgrade a standard Starbridge to the slightly more capable Rebellion standard type.  It takes just short of 24 hours and strips all excess outfits, leaving only those outfits defined as standard for the Rebel version.  However it is cheap, and relatively simple{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ?Before he defected, Mr. Donald Chick and his engineers were working on processes of updating older versions of spare vessels to later models.  Since then he has perfected the techniques required, and here is the resulting process to upgrade a standard Valkyrie to the slightly more capable Rebellion standard type.  It takes just short of 24 hours and strips all excess outfits, leaving only those outfits defined as standard for the Rebel version.  However it is cheap, and relatively simple{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ˙In a direct rip-off of the Sigma Shipyards upgrading process (which was probably taken from the upgrading process used by engineers working for the Rebellion), underhanded outfitters can now upgrade your standard Starbridge to the base level Pirate type.  Like the Sigma Shipyards process, all existing outfits are stripped from your vessel, leaving only those outfits deemed to be standard according to the new vessel type{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ‚With only a few relatively minor modifications, many shady outfitters have been able to take the Sigma Shipyards Starbridge upgrading process and use it to upgrade standard Valkyries to the much more feared pirate type.  Like all processes of this type, all existing outfits are stripped from your vessel, leaving only those outfits deemed to be standard according to the parameters of the new model{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÎYou are a little dubious as to the veracity of the claims of this shifty, grinning merchant trying to sell you bottles of Auroran Drop Bear repellant.  But you cannot help feeling that anything that helps protect you from the well-documented deadly Drop Bear attacks will stand you in good stead.Still, it is strange that just about everyone who walks past you starts grinning and shaking their heads as you consider buying from the smiling merchant...                                       çPyrogenesis' midrange product is the unimaginatively named Medium Blaster.  This variant is normally carried by capital ships only; the weight alone makes it difficult for anything smaller to mount it.  While it's slower and more bulky than its lesser sibling, the Medium Blaster is much more powerful.  The lack of a turret mechanism does drop the weight some.  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans..{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       yThe Medium Blaster really comes into its own when it becomes turreted.  Combined with sophisticated Glenn:Cyber targeting scopes, these weapons score easy hits on all but the smallest space vessels.  The Medium Blaster Turret does tend to lag a little on the faster capital ships.  The IDA Frigate mounted two of these batteries as standard.  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans..{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       ?So big and slow that only a turret mechanism allows it to hit anything at all, the Heavy Blaster Turret is the grand-daddy of the Pyrogenesis line of directed energy firepower.  Mounted as standard on the E-60 Carrier, the pride of the Federation fleet, the Heavy Blaster chews through shields and armor alike.  The short range and slow speed of the enormous packets limit the effectiveness of this weapon at anything other than boarding range.  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans...                                       |Comprised of quadruple Pyrogenesis Light Blasters on the most technically advanced turret they offer, the Quad Light Blaster system comes with a guarantee that it will dispose of your hostile fighter problems once and for all.  Shipboard gunners salivate at the thought of being permanently assigned to one of these beauties.  While the QLB System is heavy, it pours a truly prodigious amount of fire into enemy fighter squadrons, and creates havoc in the ranks of even the most disciplined fighter wings.  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans...                                       /Kayel Solutions (KLSol) have won 'Best of Show' 26 years running for their clever adaptation of the Infrared Missile launcher.  Based on the launcher mounted by the F-29 Anaconda and the E-41 Destroyer, the KLSol version is a tightly integrated set of standardized components that can easily swap between a hundred different classes of ship with only a minor, dealer serviceable tweak of the software.  The KLSol IR Missile Launcher does produce a fair amount of heat for such a small unit, but it's easily compensated for.  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans..{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       ^The Infrared Missile uses the simplest of tracking systems to deliver its small payload.  It's not much to look at, but it's cheap and promiscuously available.  The weapon itself can be loaded into a number of aftermarket launchers, including several highly illegal handheld ones used by Rebellion Vacuum Soldiers.  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans..{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       ˙GLiMMER, a band of propellerheads turned pro, created the first modern radar guided missile and launcher system way back in 2045 AD.  This design, produced under license by KLSol, is practically identical to that original design, albeit with KLSol's usual software driver genius.  You can mount this unit in any spacefaring vessel with enough expansion space to hold it.  There have even been some reports that it has been successfully incorporated into Auroran vessels!  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans..{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       ûRadar as a concept and as a useable weapons guidance system has been around since the middle of the twentieth century AD.  As humanity reached for the stars they brought their technology with them, and radar, which is not reliant on a medium for effectiveness, quickly became a necessary tool for guiding missiles.  This modern radar guided missile is a cheap GLiMMER knock-off.  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans..{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       ÏAs the FPC is cheap and easy to build the Auroran houses have opted to mount a turreted version of the cannon on almost all ships.  This particular version has been designed to specifically disable yet not destroy any targeted ships.  Auroran warriors use this weapon as their weapon of choice in their many and varied duels, and some even mount it as their standard battle weapon, claiming that they only wish to defeat their opponents, not destroy them.                                       TMany Auroran warriors have taken the basic GLiMMER radar missile launchers and modified them to launch the modified disable-only radar missiles they use in their many space-based duels.  The only main difference is a slightly wider bore so that the extra sensors required to sense ship activity can fit.                                       ôTo allow them to conduct space-based, yet non-lethal duels, the Aurorans have been forced to add some fairly sophisticated sensory equipment to their radar missiles.  The result is a missile with a slightly greater diameter than the basic radar missile design that allows warriors to fight to the utmost of their ability without fear of utterly destroying their opponents.                                       aThe Rauther Power Industries Ion Particle Cannon is amongst the most powerful directed energy weapons in the known galaxy.  Mounted on a 360°/270° firing platform, the weapons' accuracy is unmatched, delivering incredibly destructive pulses of charged helium nuclei. This particular version looks like it's a few decades old, and has been tinkered with and repaired by a number of different owners.  A few backyard tinkerers, and even one major weapon corporations seem interested in buying it, but only so they can pull it apart and have a look at what's been done to it.                                       ¡The Rauther Power Industries Ion Particle Cannon is amongst the most powerful directed energy weapons in the known galaxy.  Mounted on a 360°/270° firing platform, the weapons accuracy is unmatched, delivering incredibly destructive pulses of charged helium nuclei. The weapon's rotating phase excels in damaging shields and armor. The weapon's only major drawbacks are its heavy power requirement and large mass.  And you can buy it here without a license, but you had better be wary of Federation scans..{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       Wraithii are tiny capsules of polarons contained in a mar-graviton field.  A Wraith Cannon fires these capsules via simple biomechanics, and the capsules burst on impact, releasing a powerful kinetic force.  These guns are mounted as standard on the Dragon, and can be retrofitted to most ships on the market.  Only in recent times have the Polaris even allowed this item, which they consider to be low-tech, to be used by the Rebellion, and even then there were stringent controls placed upon them.                                       The polarons for Wraithii are harvested by deep-space mining scoops run by the Polaris worker caste.  These polarons are then shipped to P'aedt facilities for encapsulation in the mar-graviton field that will hold them until they impact at a speed of greater than 20 kilometers an hour.  Needless to say, the final packets are handled with kid gloves.  It is a testament to the capabilities of the Polaris that no accidents have ever occurred since they began shipping these weapons to the Rebellion.                                       ;Rebel Scientists, working in conjunction with Polaris Ver'ash, have devised a cloaking device for rebel ships.  Highly illegal, it is advised to not allow the customs inspector a good look at it.  You will be able to cloak in space, thus becoming all but invisible to your foes.                                        With a sudden whump, you realize that nobody escapes the Bureau that easily.  As the expanding gases engulf your body you wish you had never gotten yourself involved with the Bureau in the first place...                                       8After much argument you discover that the main saving of mass and energy in this poorer cousin of the Thorium reactors in Federation Carriers and the new models of Starbridge is in its radiation shielding and reaction-containing walls.  While it should work, if things go wrong, it may result in a rather large expanding ball of gas that you will end up being a part of{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       MIf pure safety is one of your major concerns when it comes to power systems, then you had better skip this item.  However, if you want a quick power boost but do not have the cash or the clearance to buy the more expensive commercial items then this might be the answer.  Still, you have more than a few doubts that it performs as well as the backyard tinkerer who built it says it should..{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       NThe introduction of controlled impurities has made a relatively inexpensive process almost dirt cheap."It will degrade over time, {G"mate" "ma'am"}," says the podgy grease-covered tinkerer, "So you will have to regularly replace it.  Once every six months or so should be fine, but if you let it go too long, you will end up with a very expensive paint job, and no protection whatsoever.{b424 "\"You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "\""}                                       /This stolen version of the IR Jammer used by the Federation Navy was salvaged from a destroyed Federation Destroyer and then patched up. Highly illegal (and probably a little less capable than it was before its former housing was destroyed), but very inexpensive, it is still going to be far more capable than anything you can buy in the normal civilian market{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       ›This is actually a real Federation Navy Radar Jammer, salvaged from debris after a space battle and restored to nearly its former condition.  However, it is highly illegal, but it is far better at confusing incoming missiles than the civilian version available nearly everywhere{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       The 'Exotic Ships & Weapons License' is the most expensive and the most sought-after license, as it gives you access to all of the outfits classified by the Federation Navy as requiring a license.  The small hunched man before you grumpily informs you that his work will fool even the most capable sensor sweep by Federation interceptors{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       The 'Exotic Ships & Weapons License' is the most expensive and the most sought-after license, as it gives you access to all of the outfits classified by the Federation Navy as requiring a license.  The small hunched man before you grumpily informs you that his work will fool even the most capable sensor sweep by Federation interceptors{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                        ÚWarning klaxons sound as the safeguards on your Thorium Reactor begin to catastrophically fail.  As explosions engulf your ship, you curse yourself for buying a cheap knock-off instead of the real thing...                                       All good things must come to an end, and unfortunately for this fission reactor, the end has come.  Pure and simple, you need to sell it for whatever you can get (telling the new owner it is shagged or not) and get a new power source.                                        π"It looks like this is just starting to go," says the podgy grease-covered tinkerer, "A nip and tuck here and there and it could be as good as new."                                        –"It looks like this is well on the way out," says the podgy grease-covered tinkerer, "If you want to return it to full effectiveness, you will need to replace most of it."                                        Ø"It looks like this is shot to pieces," says the podgy grease-covered tinkerer, "This is going to require a complete replace, I'm afraid."                                        ≤This map will automatically update your ship's computer with information about the location and contents of the systems surrounding this one.                                        ≤This map will automatically update your ship's computer with information about the location and contents of the systems surrounding this one.                                       ≈In recent times the Federation has been trying to come up with something new between the radar missile and the nuclear torpedo.  The end result has been this beauty.  Hellhound missiles scare every ship captain who is unfortunate enough to be anywhere near the business end of this devastating weapon.  This launcher gives you the capability to hurl these hellish thunderbolts at your enemies, something they will never forget.Requires: Missile Weapons {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ÜWithout a doubt, this is one of the most devastating missiles out there.  Although technically radar-guided, it will burn through most forms of radar jamming, making it nearly impossible to shake, and it lasts just a little too long before detonating.  With an excellent turn rate and a hefty payload, the hellhound missile is an excellent addition to any arsenal.Requires: Missile Weapons {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       These little droids, an invention by the redoubtable Dr. Sutherland, repair your armor while you are in flight.  Not very pretty, but extremely effective, these little critters will make you the envy of every trader captain out there...                                       üWhen they were developing the Lightning Heavy Fighter, Rauther discovered that the traditional Light Blaster just didn't suit the ship's basic load-out.  So they went away and tinkered with the design somewhat, and they came up with a weapon they called the Light Cannon.  It isn't quite as powerful as the Light Blaster, but it fires faster, its shots reach a little further, and it takes up a little less space as well.  Every Lightning to roll off their production line has three of them.  Not all pilots like them, because they are twice as expensive as the ubiquitous Blaster, but most agree they are a somewhat better product...                                       The 'Exotic Ships & Weapons License' is the most expensive and the most sought after license, as it gives you access to all of the outfits classified by the Federation Navy as requiring a license.  The small hunched man before you grumpily informs you that his work will fool even the most capable sensor sweep by Federation interceptors{b424 ".You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." "."}                                       £Heraan scientists quickly utilized technology stolen from the Federation during the Battle of Lesten and created the Transmission Jammer.  It jams the signals being sent out so that reinforcement fleets will not receive notice to make their move.  The military applications of this technology are immense, and especially for those involved in operations deep within enemy territory.                                        ˛This outfit, based on technology stolen during the Battle of Lesten, will manipulate your IFF system to project a signal friendly to Federation forces, so that they will treat you as friendly unless directly attacked.                                        ˙This outfit, based on technology stolen during the Battle of Lesten, will manipulate your IFF system to project a signal friendly to Moashi forces, so that they will treat you as friendly unless directly attacked.                                        æA well-known haven to spacers, Kane's Lubritorium is known throughout the Federation for its warm flat beer from rusty taps.  An acquired taste for sure.                                       #The lurid neon sign that proclaims that this bar is called 'The Hypergate' stands over a mammoth doorway shaped vaguely like an orchid which is also surrounded by neon.  Inside you see sights which can not be mentioned to anyone below the age of consent.                                        ŒWelcome to Remf's.  The officer in charge of the mess, Lt. Col. Reynold M. French, ensures that this bar is open at all times, except for when the soldiers are off-duty.                                       kThis bar claims to have been the final drinking place of former Colonial Council President Nesre.  His portrait hangs with sartorial elegance over the bar and, if you are prepared to listen long enough, the barman will tell you at length his theory on how he died which involves Auroran spies, poison and a pint of Nibos beer.                                       Spacedock III, due to its constant action, has an informal casualties average per day count. If this quota is not reached on any one day, all serving personnel feel a responsibility to make it up by coming here and getting 'slaughtered'.                                       #The lurid neon sign that proclaims that this bar is called 'The Hypergate' stands over a mammoth doorway shaped vaguely like an orchid which is also surrounded by neon.  Inside you see sights which can not be mentioned to anyone below the age of consent.                                       >As you walk into this bar, you are vaguely surprised to see that the average age of the patrons is around seventy.  Despite this, they all seem to have retained their alertness and acuity because you notice that every single eye in the room gives you the once over as you sit down.                                        ÛYou walk into a dimly-lit, smoke-filled, wood-paneled room.  You are immediately struck by its overcrowding, the huge volume of noise and by the small sign on the bar that says; "Roughnecks Need Not Apply."                                       This is a quiet, well-run bar.  After a few minutes you see a Krim-Hwa monk going around collecting money to support the many various charities they support.  You end up giving more money to the Krim-Hway than you spend on drinks.                                       áThis bar is dedicated to a little-known action-star in the twentieth century, which was nearly two millennia ago.  The mere act of ordering a beer elicits a series of bizarre squawks and somersaults from any of the bar staff, and a multitude of bottles which are switched at brain-numbing speeds before being poured into your glass.  Welcome to Jackie's.                                       In this bar you take pains to avoid its patented cocktail 'Seismic Activity(tm).'  It is so strong, that if you don't swallow immediately it will strip layers of enamel off your teeth, and only the most hardened of drinkers can keep it down.                                       The bartender seems to be a little downcast as he serves you.  When you ask he tells you that Xyon is not the best place for a pub, and that by his own reckoning he will be out of work in a few years when his creditors foreclose on his loan.                                       All of the monkdillos that have been taken for scientific study somehow end up here.  The walls seem to be coated with monkdillo shells.  The barman tells you that it's for your own good, lest you get radiation poisoning.                                       You walk into the middle of a bar brawl.  You duck a flying rock-drill, and attempt to order a beer, but you are blocked by the bodies of three young men as they hurtle across your field of vision.  Needless to say, a rough place to drink.                                        ﬁThe 'Cliff-face' has an internal climbing wall.  It is always amusing to watch drunken patrons fall heavily back to earth as they attempt to scale the edifice for 'big cash prizes(tm).'                                       >As you walk in, you see a flash from the corner of the bar, followed by a expanding cloud of smoke.  You are unsure as to what actually happened, but you recognize a muzzle flash when you see one.  You decide it would be prudent to sit at the bar and talk to no-one but the barman.                                        Most of the drinks here are named after bizarre scientific experiments.  You feel it would be safe to order a beer.  It turns out to be purple.  The boffins find this immensely amusing.  You find the boffins intensely annoying.                                        ËPictures are plastered on every wall of 'The Roughrider,' depicting successful engagements for the Roughnecks.  An arcade game entitled 'Gun A Goose' sits in the corner.  It seems overly violent.                                       7'The Stuffed Knup-Knup', as this bar is named, is a place for the scientists who live and work here to sit and relax between field trips.  Rumor has it that these people know about the black market in stuffed knup-knups, which are very valuable amongst the rich as trophies.                                       JThis bar is full of cheering fans who are watching the "Niarr!! XTreem(tm) Rocket Boarding" contest currently being shown on the wall to wall video screens.  From the noise you guess that not only is the local favorite doing well, but also that the fatal accidents are flowing thick and fast.                                         ÷This bar is filled with the lilting songs from far off Ireland, and the black gold flows freely.  You quickly find yourself being caught up in a world of drink, song, and dance.                                       This bar is the final tourist stop on a long tour of the planets sights.  The walls are devoted to pictures of Trusa's mining past, and the bartender even wears the uniform of miners worn when the Colonial Council was in existence.                                        ‡This bar has been kept alive by a couple of old retired miners who refuse to let the station die.  It saddens you to think that when these people die, this station may well die with them.                                       This bar is geared to be a quick stopover for freighter crews while their ships are being loaded.  The food is ordinary, the drinks are ordinary and the service could best be described as casual, but you can get everything in next to no time.                                        ÷The walls of this bar are covered by pictures of Mars in the various stages of ecological transformation, along with the explanations for why it was done and the effects it had.                                       This bar is part of the complete service offered by Pyrogenesis to trader captains.  The operation is heavily subsidized by the parent company so that the service, food and drink are excellent, while maintaining low prices.                                        ‰This bar seems to be the place to go if you want to pick up goods of a somewhat shady origin.  Drugs, illegal weapons contracts and similar types of deals are made all the time in this place.                                        ÷This bar is filled with young people who seem to be disaffected with life on Snowmelt.  They come here to tell each other their dreams and plans for escaping their dreary lives.                                        ﬁThis is something of a bar for yuppies.  It has several televisions showing an archaic pre-hyperspace cartoon show about some singer and her band and their struggles with a rival group.                                       This bar is filled with the rowdy crews of some of the small trading concerns that deal with Boral.  This establishment is a spacer's dream; good beer, good service, jokes, laughs and the occasional rousing fight.  What more could you want?                                         ŒAll conversation ceases as you enter this bar and every eye turns to you.  The bartender serves you sullenly and you realize that as an outsider you are not wanted here.                                       The mostly young people in this bar proclaim themselves to be in Rebellion.  They say that they are not rebelling against the Federation, but that they are rebelling against the Bureau of Internal Investigation and, sadly, against the tools it uses.                                       The patrons of this bar all speak with heavy accents, but with excellent diction.  The drinks are a little coarse, but very strong.  After only a few you decide to call it quits before you have to be carried back to your ship.                                        This bar has two sections, one for those who have a little money, and one for those who do not.  You decide to drink in the better half, as you are not too sure of surviving if you enter the poorer half.                                       @This bar is filled with armchair intellectuals debating Federation policy and the alleged actions of the so-called Rebellion.  You listen with a little interest, but you soon realize that very few of the patrons have any real understanding of the Federation outside their own system.                                        ÌYou walk in to hear the strains of a melodious folk-song being sung lustily and well by most of the patrons.  You are immediately whisked into their midst and given a drink and shown a damn good time.                                       oA more wretched hive of scum and villainy you will not find.  In one corner you have a seedy band playing some exotic form of what you think is music, and the rest of the dimly lit bar is filled with dodgy and dangerous looking characters who are all giving you the once over.  You decide to spend as little time here as possible.                                       The Federation soldiers who frequent this club continually cast suspicious glances at the few Auroran traders with their ferociously tattooed Auroran warrior escorts who return their stares with contempt.  The tension in the air is palpable.                                       This very proper bar is filled with the requisite number of men, all with well-groomed moustaches, drinking pints of warm flat beer and speaking in boorish tones about inconsequential matters.  Your immediate thought is to run screaming.                                       `You have to bend as you walk into this bar.  You find it in a state of joyous uproar as the diminutive inhabitants are getting drunk and jovially destroying this establishment.  Even the bartender seems to be getting in on the act as he smashes the occasional bottle over the head of a patron that strays too close.                                        –This bar is a retreat from the office for the many Rauther executives that live on this planet.  The service is good, and the many cubicles allow a fair amount of privacy.                                       CMany of the patrons are wearing some of the latest 'Made by Helen(tm)' fashions that are only available on this planet.  You shake your head, for you realize that these flimsy fashion garments will never last long, probably not even long enough for the next fad in the fashion industry.                                        €This bar reflects the cosmopolitan nature of Ryll.  The patrons seem to come from all over the Federation, and with so many different backrounds, the bar caters to almost all tastes.                                       HOn entering this bar you see a number of young Shaolin monks drinking heavily.  You are about to question why when the bartender tells you that they are attempting to train in some style of drunken martial arts.  You find this idea amusing, but you decide not to push the issue just in case.                                       !This homey little bar has a large fireplace in which blazes a pleasantly warming fire.  The bartender greets you with a casual familiarity and pours you the drink you want.  He waves away your payment saying that the first drink is always on the house.                                        You leave your shoes at the door when you enter this bar, and you have to sit on the small cushions on the floor.  Despite this, the service is courteous and elegant, and the food and drink is exquisite.                                        ®This bar is filled with people trying to escape the cramped living quarters they are forced to live in by getting blissfully drunk.                                       DThis well-lit, tastefully furnished bar is obviously something of a gentlemen's club.  Soon after you enter, the members call on you to tell them of news from your travels throughout the galaxy.  They listen avidly as you tell them about some of the more bizarre encounters of your life.                                        ˘This bar is filled with merchants and traders from all over the galaxy.  They have all come here looking to buy some of the Chrotite gas harvested here to sell at an enormous profit elsewhere in Federation space.                                        ≈This bar is filled with a large group of off-duty miners.  You quickly decide to leave when the biggest of their number starts hassling you looking for trouble.                                       [This well-appointed bar has an enormous set of windows that show off the evening sky and the two rising moons to perfection.  Looking around you see that a number of young men have taken advantage of the romantic setting to push their luck with their lady friends.  Quite a number seem to be doing fairly well.                                        ¶This bar is filled with beautiful willowy Polynesian-looking women and their scowlingly protective large and heavily muscled men.                                        ˛This very upper-class bar is for the very rich and the high-ranking officers of the Federation Navy.  You quickly learn that while the service and drinks are of excellent quality, the prices here are heavily inflated.                                        ∆This bar is for visiting ship captains and the live-in training staff only.  As a civilian you are treated a little frostily and with a bare minimum of civility.                                        ÙYou walk in to this bar to see an extremely fit-looking, middle-aged man making a series of caustic comments to a television crew regarding the policies of the Federation regarding the University of Misfire.                                       .The bartender of this bar looks at you mournfully as you walk into this completely empty bar.  When you ask why nobody is drinking here he says that the only time he makes any money is when troops come here to be put into suspension, otherwise nothing much happens.                                       This quiet bar serves some of the finest drinks you have tasted anywhere in Federation space.  "Just because we live out here doesn't mean we have to drink rubbish," says the bartender, noting your surprise.  You whole-heartedly agree.                                        ˙This dirty, foul-smelling establishment is filled with the outcasts of a civilization that has forgotten them.  After the tenth beggar has asked you piteously for money, you resolve not to return here for a while.                                       ^As you walk in you cannot see a lot in this dark smoke-filled bar.  As your eyes adjust you notice many small groups leaning closely together furtively discussing things which you would prefer not to know about.  You quickly reach the conclusion that you should probably spend as little time in here as necessary.                                       This bar is full of salesmen, most of whom are discussing business over lunch with some of their clients.  Every wall has hundreds of pictures of the weapons systems created by the GLi-Tech corporation in its nearly 2000 years of operation.                                        ÙThis bar has pictures all over its walls of Goliath at its height some seven centuries ago.  You sense the almost palpable sadness of this place which was amongst the most beautiful of planets in the galaxy.                                        ÚThis bar is filled with a mix of tired workers and rowdy soldiers.  You decide that staying here for too long might be a bad idea because you sense that some of the soldiers are itching to start something.                                       BYou are somewhat excited at the thought of eating in this place and you are not disappointed.  From the first bite to the last, the food served in this bar is simply beyond description.  The food produced on this planet deserves to be venerated, for there is none better in the galaxy.                                       2This bar is filled with miners who have just come off their shifts.  While they are all a little dirty, none of them are as filthy as you would expect them to be after six hours digging far beneath the surface.  Obviously the technology they are using is very advanced.                                       This dark, cozy bar is said to be have been in operation ever since the Polaris built this sky-station some four centuries ago.  It is obvious that in that time the barstaff have learned a thing or two about service, which is extremely good.                                        ÔThe white clothes of the workers in this bar are all soiled to some degree or other.  You can tell the miners from the processors from the foremen just by the amount of dirt and grime on their clothing.                                        ﬂThis bar is filled with photographs of various uninhabited regions of the ring.  You learn that the entire human race could be supported comfortably by the ecosystems on this ring world.                                       ≤You walk in to see a number of older-looking, brown-cloaked Polarans eating the midday meal.  You are somewhat startled to realize that the youngest person in the room is over 150 years old, and the oldest is some 270 years in age.  They explain that the life-expectancy of a member of the Kel'ariy is some 247 years, and that it is not that unusual for people to live to see their fourth century.                                       This bar is cleverly hidden in the foliage of one of the enormous trees covering large portions of the surface of this planet.  You cannot help admiring the ingenuity of the Tre'pira in building this absolutely ecologically friendly establishment.                                       This bar is filled with jovial Ver'ash all having a few drinks on their way home from work.  You soon become involved in several conversations around you, and you spend the rest of the night chatting with several of the inhabitants of the world.                                       'This bar has a more even mix of castes of any bar you have come across in Polaris space.  You see Tre'pira, Ver'ash, Nil'kemorya, a few occasional Mu'Hari and even one or two P'aedt.  They all seem to circulate amongst one another with no trouble whatsoever.                                       \If you did not know that every dish served in this bar for dinner is entirely derived from the kelp and plankton harvested from this worlds ocean you would swear that you had eaten foods imported from a vast variety of planets.  You leave a little awed at the culinary capabilities of the people on this planet.                                       ßThe Ver'ash in this room seem to be desperately trying to drink themselves into unconsciousness.  From a somewhat glassy-eyed young man you hear that they have been working in a factory which separates the wanted biological agents from the biological sludge that covers the surface of this planet for the last three months.  Tomorrow they will be returning for another three month tour.                                       The green-cloaked doctors and engineers sitting in this bar are all eating their dinner and having a few drinks in small groups.  Unlike similar Ver'ash bars elsewhere, they are not discussing aspects of their work while they unwind.                                       õThis bar is filled with a number of brown-cloaked members of the leadership caste.  You notice the presence of eight gray-cloaked warriors standing in pairs in a rough diamond around one of the Kel'ariy.  Despite their air of relaxation, you notice that they seem to be aware of everything, and you feel their gaze bore into you whenever you make even the smallest of moves.                                       áWhen you walk into this establishment you see several young warriors sitting around various tables in serious discussions about various problems.  None of them appear to be drunk, and every single one glances at you when you walk in and gives you a practiced once over before you take two steps into the room.  You cannot help but feel slightly overawed.                                        ¯This bar has a large number of Tre'pira eating and drinking here as well as a few of the brown-cloaked Kel'ariy.  You notice that the Tre'pira have an attitude of deference about them whenever dealing with them.                                       ?This tiny bar has a few black-cloaked Mu'Hari drinking in it when you arrive.  As soon as they see you they immediately all make sure that your every need is taken care of before returning to their own drinks.  You have never seen a group of people more concerned with your welfare.                                       +This large establishment is full of  Tre'pira who have obviously just finished working for the day.  The atmosphere is happy yet still restrained.  They all seem to be mindful that they have to be at work early again tomorrow, so nobody seems to be overdoing it.                                        ÁThis is perhaps the most luxuriously appointed bar you have seen anywhere in the galaxy.  Only a few white-cloaked Tre'pira seem to drink here, but the drinks are the best you have had anywhere.                                       This large bar was obviously built to cater for a much larger number of people than actually live here.  You realize that the Tre'pira believe that this small operation will be expanded greatly in the near future and so they have planned accordingly.                                       This bar is filled with people wearing the black of the Mu'Hari.  As you walk in, they all give way and you find that your every need is met almost before you can voice it.  It seems as if everyone is going out of their way to help you.                                        ËThis small bar has a couple of older Ver'ash talking quietly one-on-one with young Ver'ash aspirants about some procedure you have no understanding of.  Despite this you are made to feel welcome.                                        ˜The students and staff of this establishment mix freely after hours laughing and chatting in this room.  The jovial atmosphere is infectious and you soon find yourself laughing and joking right along with them.                                       :The engineers and scientists who are in this bar give you a quick glance when you walk in and then continue their discussion about some new technique of growing some ship parts to give them more strength.  Only the two black-cloaked Mu'Hari pay any attention to you whatsoever.                                        ˛The Tre'pira who live here all seem to be a little more serious than their colleagues elsewhere.  Perhaps their duties as jailors weigh heavily on their minds.  In here, most of them seem to be content to drink alone.                                        This homey little bar has only a few white-cloaked Tre'pira who are obviously regulars.  The bartender smiles when he sees you and introduces you to all the people present.  Soon you are trading stories and having a great time.                                        This bar is filled with workers having a quiet drink after a long day working.  This sea of white clothing is only broken by the occasional green jersey of one of the station's Ver'ash engineers quietly enjoying a meal.                                       5As you walk in you see a number of scientists, in their dark blue clothing, talking excitedly amongst themselves.  Every now and again the conversation stops momentarily when one of the Ver'ash shakes her head and smilingly tells the P'aedt why his theories will not work.                                       cThis bar is actually located in the outer areas of the station up against the outer walls.  Part of the charm of this place are the occasional low, almost inaudible groans of the bio-organic outer shell of the station slightly shifting position to better shield the occupants from the high levels of radiation outside.                                        ÍThis small bar has a couple of members of the leadership caste having their lunch.  They all nod in greeting as you walk past their seats and the bar staff get you everything you want with a smile.                                       The many blue-coated scientists in this room all seem to be discussing differing ways of reducing pollution on a planetary level.  The tired ring to many of these conversations suggests that a lot of what is being said has been said before.                                       GYou see a number of Ver'ash in their dark green uniforms talking with a number of gray-cloaked members of the warrior caste.  The difference between the two groups is subtle yet obvious.  The Ver'ash are happy, if tired, and the Nil'kemorya all seem to be preternaturally relaxed and alert.                                       gThe Ver'ash who are drinking here all look tired yet happy.  A couple of them tell you that despite the pressures and hard work that comes with being a member of their caste, they all know that what they are doing is directly helping the survival of their nation.  "What greater service could we perform?" asks one patron.                                        ”This bar is a place for the small number of closely-knit Tre'pira who work here to unwind outside of their work environment where they are under constant pressure to perform.                                        ƒThe Tre'pira in this homely bar are all quietly relaxing having a few drinks in small groups.  In the background you hear some sort of quiet, yet lively music.                                       bEvery warrior you see is covered in the purple battle tattoos given to survivors of engagements with the mysterious Polaris.  Unlike warriors elsewhere, these men and women do not seem to be overly arrogant or confident.  Perhaps it is because they have met and survived against an enemy far stronger than themselves.                                       mThis bar is filled with a number of freighter captains whose job it is to keep this depot supplied with everything it needs.  The few warriors here treat them with respect because they know that if these captains decide not to return here, they will have difficulty surviving for too long with the amounts of supplies they have.                                       .This bar is filled with a few of regulars and a large number of Aurorans from all walks of life from throughout the Empire who have come to sample the beer from the original Nibos Brewery.  Everyone agrees that there is no better beer served anywhere in the galaxy.                                       =You see no shortage of warriors who all bear a number of the small purple battle tattoos signifying successful engagements against the Polaris, although the definition of success in this case has often been deemed to mean mere survival when talking about battles with the Polaris.                                        ÛThe students and staff that live here are being mocked by a couple of arrogant young warriors.  The students and staff accept this bullying sullenly, which only seems to delight the warriors that much more.                                        ∆This room is filled with the administrators of this planet.  They are all small quiet men with fastidious habits drinking weak alcoholic beverages in moderation.                                        ‡This bar is filled with merchants complaining about the wait for their goods to be processed, and a large group of Tekel House warriors who seem to spend their time mocking their efforts.                                       This bar is filled with Tekel warriors who have made the pilgrimage to this station in order to learn more about the battle which was fought against the Polaris here over five decades ago.  There is an air of quiet reverence about this place.                                       HThis room is filled with small groups of young would-be warriors sitting listening to warriors too old to serve in any more active role.  It seems that these ancient warriors are trying to teach these young hotheads some of the ideas behind what they as warriors should be trying to achieve.                                        This bar is filled with tired grubby workers having a few drinks before heading home after work.  Most seem almost too exhausted to talk, and the noise in the room, despite the hundreds of patrons, is uncomfortably low.                                       This establishment is full of warriors drinking themselves into oblivion trying to forget just how close they came to dying.  Many of the ships they arrived in were held together more by sheer willpower than by anything else.                                       .This bar is filled with warriors lording it over the people 'lucky' enough to serve them.  The workers here are treated poorly and are mocked, derided and sent on spurious errands by the warriors.  The jeering and the barbs are accepted with a dejected impassivity.                                       This lounge is filled with tired doctors and nurses, most of which are trying to catch up on some sleep.  As you talk to a few of them, you begin to realize how hard these people work.  Most have not slept for days, some for weeks.                                       The warriors in this bar are a quiet bunch.  They all look too miserable and tired to raise much of a laugh.  Most of them wait for their six month posting here to finish so that they might go on to a more glorious and less demanding position.                                        ÏThe only decoration in this stark bar is a projection of Neilha, the man for whom this station is named.  Underneath this scrolling text tells of his life and of the deed for which he was remembered.                                        »This richly appointed establishment is overlooked by a balcony which has but one table.  A shadowy figure sits there watching the movements of everyone in the bar.                                        ÚThis cozy young bar is filled with small intimate alcoves filled with young couples enjoying each others company.  The romantic atmosphere makes you feel uncomfortable and you resolve not to stay too long.                                       RThe warriors here all seem to be grumbling about the quiet nature of their posting.  You hear some of them saying that they almost wish that the Rochak pirates would launch an attack or that Tekel warriors would make another attempt to sneak around their front lines.  Anything to relieve the boredom.                                        ˇThis bar has a large flat ringed area which is used for warriors of the Dani House to conduct their ritual duels.  Perhaps the fact that none are being fought today accounts for the relatively few people drinking here.                                       This somewhat upper-class bar is filled with warriors who have risen to positions of authority within the ranks of the Dani House.  Somewhat surprisingly, despite the plush surroundings, the behavior and crude jokes are no better.                                        ⁄This bar is basically a huge room with one long bar that stretches the entire length of one entire wall.  The number of people drinking here looks to run into the tens of thousands.                                        ‹This room is filled with warriors all boasting about how close they came to death as they nursed what was left of their ships back to these facilities.  The noise is almost deafening.                                       You can see three levels of Dani society in this bar.  There are the students, who are treated with disdain by everybody, then you have the teachers and administrators who are in turn looked down upon by the small clumps of warriors.                                       When you walk into this bar you see a small crowd of workers all listening attentively to an old warrior with literally thousands of battle tattoos as he recounts  some story about an incident he was involved in decades ago.                                        ÛThis bar is filled with Dani warriors all enjoying a quiet drink after coming off duty in this very active system.  Even the youngest of them seems to be covered in battle tattoos and more than a few scars.                                       1This lower floor of this two-level bar is filled with hundreds of miners all having a few drinks after coming off their shifts.  The second, better appointed level is filled with many ferociously tattooed warriors wearing the white and gold colors of the First Family.                                        ¿This huge bar is filled with literally thousands of noisy off-duty aquaculture workers spending some of their hard earned money on a few (10 or 11) drinks.                                        ¯This bar is filled with quite a few young Rimertan warriors all drinking non-alcoholic drinks, a habit they picked up from their Heraan colleagues, with whom the normally aloof Dechtakars share a mutual respect.                                       &This bar is filled with many young warriors wearing the white and gold colors of the First Family.  A few of the older ones are saluting their colleagues saying that they will probably meet each other next on differing sides of the disputes of their Houses.                                       ^Moash House warriors dominate this bar as they lord it over the many young warriors wearing the colors of the First Family.  Obviously the First Family, being the Moash House, support their own warriors over the warriors who come from all the other Houses to serve the regulation two years under the First Family.                                        ‡Like most bars throughout the Empire that mix warriors with workers in any other professions, the warriors, despite being fewer in number, take the lion share of the space, and limelight.                                       	This bar is dominated by the few warriors who demand the most space, the best seats and all the attention.  The many workers all give way to them with the kind of mindless servility only exhibited by those who know no other way.                                       This is a bar of two halves.  The warriors take the larger brighter half, and the workers take the smaller, dirtier half.  If any of the workers stray into the area housing the warriors, he is quickly and forcefully rebuffed.                                        ˝When you walk into this room you notice five tables set apart at the rear of the bar.  From what you can see through the smoke, it looks like representatives from each of the Five Houses are circulating between them.                                        ŸYou walk in to see the amazing sight of warriors, engineers and scientists all sitting together discussing the problems encountered with exploration of the Galactic South thus far.                                        As you walk in you see a Heraan House warrior talking to a number of young warrior initiates about the nature of being a warrior.  You hear the words honor, strength, integrity and above all impeccability being mentioned often.                                        ≈Here the Heraan warriors and the Rimertan Dechtakars cement the ties of brotherhood forged between them in battle with a few quiet drinks and many loud stories.                                       This hospital lounge is filled with tired looking Heraan medical professionals of all types relaxing for a few minutes before returning to the unending pressures of their work trying to save the many injured warriors of their house.                                        ˝This bar only serves a small number of very common drinks because the warriors stationed here, like most other Heraan warriors, never drink alcohol if there is any chance of them having to be ready to go into action.                                        ÒThis bar is filled with tired Heraan workers all being bought drinks by warriors who seem to be toasting their efforts.  Strangely, the Heraan House warriors do not seem to be drinking anything alcoholic.                                       'As you walk into this dimly lit room you notice what looks like a small group of Heraan warriors talking with some of the senior administrators of Trenel.  Every time someone comes close to their table, they all stop talking and the warriors tense up as one.                                       6The Heraan warriors who are posted here all seem to be discussing how to best rotate their manpower to allow the greatest number of them to actually be posted to a more honorable posting.  You sense that many have a deep abiding anger at having to guard the criminals here.                                        ⁄Surprisingly in this bar, the Heraan House warriors, as they drink their non-alcoholic drinks, seem to give way to members of the working and merchant classes as a matter of course.                                        –Despite the fact that all the warriors stationed here are off-duty and appear relaxed, you notice that they all keep their communicators handy, and none are getting drunk.                                       dUnlike similar establishments in other areas of Auroran space, here the students and teachers of the university are treated as respected equals by the warriors who come here.  As you look around you can see members of the different faculties swapping jokes and stories with the many warriors who are drinking with them.                                       7This tastefully furnished bar seems to be the drinking hole for the many members of the medical profession who live and work here.  As you sit and listen you see a Heraan warrior walk in to quietly thank the staff for their efforts in ensuring his recovery from deaths door.                                       Like all establishments in Heraan space, you see Heraan House warriors sitting quietly drinking non-alcoholic beverages.  Somehow these frighteningly tattooed men and women seem that much fiercer because of their silence.                                       \All the men drinking here seem to be overseers for the work going on around you.  They are all complaining about the ridiculous demands being made of them by their boss in another system.  They all end up leaving after grumbling that the only way to meet the demanded deadlines is to kill many of their workers.                                       AThis bar is filled with off-duty workers from the construction sites of the unbuilt arcologies.  They all seem to be drinking to colleagues who died during their last work period that and complaining about the inadequate safety precautions being used by their overseers to save money.                                       All of the warriors here have a very serious air about them, and none of them seem to be getting drunk.  As you enter nearly every eye glances in your direction, but no comments are made and you are given a decent amount of space at the bar.                                        ÌAs you walk in you are challenged by one of the very few unfit looking warriors you have ever seen.  You are about to respond when his eyes roll up into his head and he falls to the floor unconscious.                                        øNoisily drunk Moash warriors are far too busy drinking, singing, fighting and throwing up to take any notice of you as you enter this noisy establishment.                                       .This bar, called 'The General's Heart' is full of heavily tattooed warriors who are enjoying themselves without getting at all drunk.  Obviously they are aware that they might be called out at any time, and so they are limiting themselves to only a few drinks each.                                       This room is filled with tired farm-hands from the countless nearby farming concerns.  Unlike other members of the Auroran working class on other planets these men seem to be well-fed and clothed, and they seem to have a little more self-esteem.                                        ˆWhile most Houses do not allow the consumption of alcohol on active bases, the House of Moash seems to have little problem with it.  The warriors stationed here obviously agree wholeheartedly with this policy.                                       OThis bar looks like it is many centuries old, and this is exactly what the bartender claims.  He reckons that this bar is the oldest pub in known space and that it has been in operation for over 1200 years.  Despite this you note that obviously they are yet to figure out how to brew a decent beer.                                       The warriors stationed here all seem to have a few grumbles about their current posting.  They would rather be on the borders of Moash space defending against the depredations of warriors from the other houses than being posted to guard this planet.                                        ÃThe Moash House warriors drinking here have an air of arrogance about them as if they know they are members of the First Family and are somehow stronger because of it.                                       \All the warriors drinking here seem to have more red battle tattoos than you are used to seeing in bars around Auroran space.  Other than that, these warriors are like most of the others you have met.  Well muscled, dangerous looking men and women who seem ever-ready to issue or accept virtually any challenge.                                       8This bar is filled with warriors who, like their colleagues from all corners of the Empire, are covered in little tattoos showing their prowess and history.  The only thing that sets them apart is that three quarters of them are redheads.  You find it a little disconcerting.                                       This bar is filled with what looks to be the poorer working class relatives of a young Vella-House warrior who is telling stories about his training and initiation.  Many of his stories draw gasps of amazement and awe from his listeners.                                        ◊This room is filled with many members of the poor Auroran worker class who respectfully give way to the larger, more dangerous and fiercely tattooed members of the warrior class.                                        —This filthy bar is filled with dirty, poor, slightly undernourished men spending what little money they earn on the only thing that allows them some relief in their lives.                                       This watering hole was built to allow the many warriors posted here to work off a little of the stress associated with living here.  It is filled with warriors who are spending their off-duty hours trying single-mindedly to drink themselves legless.                                       SThis bar hosts a cross-section of Auroran Society.  You see a few dirty, obviously poor men drinking alone at the bar as well as a number of slightly better dressed merchants drinking with the fiercely tattooed warriors who had been paid to protect them and their cargo.  Nobody pays you any attention.                                       This small and almost clinically-clean establishment is full of off-duty doctors and their assistants all talking shop.  You quickly realize that you have no idea what they are talking about.  Before long you end up drinking alone in silence.                                        ÀA number of recovering, heavily tattooed warriors have come here and they seem to be spending their time toasting the efforts of every hospital staff-member they see.                                       /This bar is filled with both students and members of the teaching staff for the huge university on this planet.  However, despite being outnumbered, all the best seats, and the largest amount of room is still given to the few warriors who have deigned to drink here.                                       GThis well-placed, if shonkily constructed bar is full of happy and mostly drunk off-duty warriors all trying to drink themselves into oblivion.  You are immediately grabbed and dragged to the bar and challenged to a drinking competition.  It is the start of a long, if slightly hazy, night.                                        µAs you walk into the bar you see a number of slightly sullen-looking warriors who all look like they are waiting for an excuse to challenge you.                                        ¯You enter this small establishment to find it nicely full of happily drunk patrons.  You happen to notice a broad-shouldered, slightly overweight guy wearing glasses sipping quietly on what looks to be a scotch.                                       IYou walk into a busy nightclub in which a techno beat continually beats against your chest.  As you wrestle your way to the bar you notice a tall guy with a completely shaved head excepting two horns of hair and two short pointed tails at the back of his head cutting sick on the dance floor.                                        ËA number of what appears to be high-ranking rebel officials seem to be making themselves at home here.  They give you a warm if somewhat reserved greeting and allow you plenty of room at the bar.                                       fWelcome to the New Sydney Hotel, the best little pub in town.  You walk into a happy atmosphere where everyone seems to be enjoying themselves immensely.  You notice a group of six people toasting each other over a few beers (and one coke) on one of the high tables near the window.  You wonder what they are celebrating.                                       
You enter a happily noisy establishment where returning rebels toast their own efforts and wish luck to a number of outgoing operatives.  You are given your own space, and a drink is placed in front of you with a welcoming smile.                                       PYou walk into a menacingly dark and smoky yet surprisingly clean establishment.  A small jazz band play classy numbers on the stage making just enough noise to cover any conversation going on.  You notice six dangerously well-dressed men sitting at a table on a balcony quietly overlooking the club.                                        æA well-known haven to spacers, Kane's Lubritorium is known throughout the Federation for its warm flat beer from rusty taps.  An acquired taste for sure.                                        ÷The walls of this bar are covered by pictures of Mars in the various stages of ecological transformation, along with the explanations for why it was done and the effects it had.                                       >As you walk in, you see a flash from the corner of the bar, followed by a expanding cloud of smoke.  You are unsure as to what actually happened, but you recognize a muzzle flash when you see one.  You decide it would be prudent to sit at the bar and talk to no-one but the barman.                                        ⁄Surprisingly in this bar, the Heraan House warriors, as they drink their non-alcoholic drinks, seem to give way to members of the working and merchant classes as a matter of course.                                        –Despite the fact that all the warriors stationed here are off-duty and appear relaxed, you notice that they all keep their communicators handy, and none are getting drunk.                                        ·This bar is sadly fairly empty.  The ageing patrons of this bar tell you that they are all veterans of the Rebellion, and now that the Bureau has been destroyed, they have finally retired.                                       cThe Federation soldiers who now frequent this establishment have kept the tradition of toasting leaving soldiers, only now the soldiers doing the leaving come from the Federation and they go off to do battle with the pirates.  You are given your own space, and a drink is placed in front of you with a welcoming smile.                                       )This room is full of young pilots wanting to live on the edge and maybe find something new.  They give you plenty of space but ignore you because you are obviously an older pilot from a time when nobody went outside the Federation.  Oh, the arrogance of youth.                                       ¿This bar looks like it has only recently been reopened for business, and parts of it still look like the Wild Geese went through here only days ago.  Then you notice some furious Moash warriors smashing the furniture and you realize that they keenly feel the stain on their House left behind by the soldiers of New Ireland.  Perhaps because of everything that has happened, you think that the beer has improved.                                        ˚Pictures are plastered on every wall of 'The Roughrider,' depicting successful engagements for the Roughnecks.  An old unused arcade game entitled 'Gun A Goose' sits in the corner.  Nobody seems to want to play it.                                       Heraan House warriors dominate this bar and unlike their predecessors they treat the many young warriors wearing the colors of the First Family as equals unless they have proved themselves otherwise.  You can see many Heraan warriors having a drink and sharing stories with warriors who have obviously come from widely spread parts of the Empire.                                       OThis bar looks like it is many centuries old, and this is exactly what the bartender claims.  He reckons that this bar is the oldest pub in known space and that it has been in operation for over 1200 years.  Despite this you note that obviously they are yet to figure out how to brew a decent beer.                                       BYou are somewhat excited at the thought of eating in this place and you are not disappointed.  From the first bite to the last, the food served in this bar is simply beyond description.  The food produced on this planet deserves to be venerated, for there is none better in the galaxy.                                       When you walk into this establishment you see several young polarans sitting down looking morose.  You suppose that they have every reason to look glum, you would too if you had been forced to voluntarily give up your national identity.                                        ˛You are surprised to see this warmly lit, friendly establishment awaiting you.  The alcohol is decent, and the service is certainly up to a decent standard.  It really is amazing what a turnaround Brass has undergone.                                       -'What once was a cold, dark rock is now a shining star.'The sign over the doorway to this establishment says a lot about the new attitude shown by the vast majority of the populace.  With a nod and a smile you walk in to enjoy a few quiet drinks in good company.                                       ÜAfter walking through the required bio-filters tears come unbidden to your eyes as you walk into a perfect replica of the old dimly-lit, smoke-filled, wood-panelled room.  The same crowd as always notes your arrival and raises their glasses towards you as a note of their respect for you.  You sit down, and with a lump in your throat, order your drink.                                       ûAfter walking through the now redundant bio-filters you walk into the same old dimly-lit, smoke-filled, wood-panelled room.  The same crowd as always notes your arrival and raises their glasses towards you as a note of their respect for you.  You sit down, and with a lump in your throat, order your drink, just wanting to lose yourself in the warmth of this place for a while.                                       GNow this is what a pub should be like.  It's small and dimly lit with a slightly overweight publican wearing a black apron.  The beers are simple but pleasant and the atmosphere is friendly.  Patrons exchange news and stories over a few drinks after working hard in the fields or the mines.                                       ÖThis bar is called 'Rengel's Rest', and claims to be the last stopover for David Rengel, the leader of the terraformers before he left to go on to his next project.  You smile at the stories of the barman, because you know that this bar wasn't even built at the time David left.  Still the drinks here are good enough for you to keep your mouth shut...                                       CEMP weapons have not changed much since the first days of nuclear power.  This tube fires torpedos carrying an EMP weapon with a yield of a gigaton or more of TNT.  EMP weapons, as with all nuclear-type weapons, are generally the province of pirates and military dictators, as their use has been severely limited by all civilized people{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ¨As a result of a lab accident when trying to study a captured Polaris biological ship, Federation scientists were able to create a sub-space bubble.  Later, with further research, they were able to figure out how to wrap one around a ship.  The result is that most modern sensors are completely incapable of detecting the ship as it is now 'cloaked' in the background fabric of the universe.                                       ˆIf you are prepared to pay the exorbitant price, the Sigma Shipyards engineers will go over the engines of your ship with a fine-tooth comb, bringing out every possible bit of performance from your engine.  They will personalize every aspect of your engine to take advantage of every ounce of power, and make it as efficient as possible.  The end result is an engine that will accelerate faster, have a higher top speed, allow for slightly better maneuverability and will be more energy-efficient when hyperspacin{P30"g." "g.REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ÊThe electrical wiring of ships created on a production line is never very efficient, as manufacturers are more interested in cutting costs than creating a perfect electrical system.  However, if you are prepared to pay the price, the Sigma engineers will rip out all the electrics of your ship and recraft them with far more attention to detail.  The resulting system should slightly increase the capabilities of your sensors, and give a boost to both your shielding capacity and your recharge rat{P30"e." "e.REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       áThe limits of guns and turrets on most vessels are decided by safety engineers, but with a little bit of reinforcement, it becomes possible to increase those limits.  The cost may be prohibitive, but for the ship captain who wants that much more firepower, the Sigma engineers will guarantee that by the time they are finished you should be able to fit four more guns and two more turrets to your vesse{P30"l." "l.REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                        ˛You are surprised to see this warmly lit, friendly establishment awaiting you.  The alcohol is decent, and the service is certainly up to a decent standard.  It really is amazing what a turnaround Brass has undergone.                                       -'What once was a cold, dark rock is now a shining star.'The sign over the doorway to this establishment says a lot about the new attitude shown by the vast majority of the populace.  With a nod and a smile you walk in to enjoy a few quiet drinks in good company.                                       hThe Auroran Thunderforge is the pinnacle of current Auroran science.  It combines many diverse elements with a distinctive Auroran flavour, and nothing typifies this more than the Triphammer.  Thanks largely to Vell-os intervention, the Triphammer combines Vell-os energy principals with typical Auroran brutish  technology.  The cannon fires a cadmium telluride pellet which vaporizes during its flight.  The particles left in its wake create a conduit for the real action to follow.  The particle trail is a perfect channel to conduct an obscene amount of metaphasic energy, which arcs into the target with predictably devastating results.  The Thunderforge itself was built as a suitable weapons platform for these mighty guns, and would be immeasurably weakened by their removal; they form an integral part of the ship's structure.                                        •Your power and skill match that of any Vell-os that has ever lived.  There is very little in the universe that can harm you now.                                        ˜Mighty beyond the understanding of even the Vell-os of old, your telepathic capabilities afford you protection against all but the most destructive of forces in the universe, and even they are often survivable.                                       OPyrogenesis' midrange product is the unimaginatively named Medium Blaster.  This variant is normally carried by capital ships only; the weight alone makes it difficult for anything smaller to mount it.  While it's slower and more bulky than its lesser sibling, the Medium Blaster is much more powerful.  The lack of a turret mechanism does drop the weight some.Requires: Heavy Weapons License{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." " "}                                       OIf you have a large enough ship, with lots of cargo space that you would like to swap out for a bit more weapons room, the Sigma Shipyards engineers can mount the required structural beams inside your ship and cut the necessary weapons ports in your hull.  They don't recommend this procedure more than once, as it could start to destabilise your vessel, and once done, it is virtually impossible to undo, as they have to dramatically change the overall integrity of your hull.  However, for a cost of 120 tons of cargo space, you can gain a total of 100 tons of room for any weapon emplacements you like{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       JThe Sigma Shipyards engineers are capable of adding numerous small 'weapons pods' to the outside of your hull without seriously unbalancing your vessel.  The result is a mere 5 extra tons of weapons space, but it is 5 tons gained without the loss of any cargo space and, as any pilot can tell you, that extra 5 tons can make all the difference{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                        úMY BRAIN HURTS!  This is a stupid dësc to have to write.  Who bloody knows?  You can make people hurt with your brain!                                        &The Auroran shipwrights can install the electromag catapults for Firebird launching quite quickly.  The conversion also includes the appropriate Firebird housing facilities, allowing for a maximum of six of them{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       &The Auroran shipwrights can install the electromag catapults for Firebird launching quite quickly.  The conversion also includes the appropriate Firebird housing facilities, allowing for a maximum of six of them{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       RFirebirds are the main Auroran fighter.  Their engines are simple, to say the least.  Their task is to protect the Phoenix from attack by smaller fighters such as the Viper, while the Phoenix take on the heavier ships.  The Firebird is slower than the Viper, but not by enough to give the Viper a decisive edge.  Battles between the two often come down to individual skill.  Many a Federation/Auroran border skirmish has come to a halt while the two sides watch a Firebird/Viper dogfight between renowned pilots{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       RFirebirds are the main Auroran fighter.  Their engines are simple, to say the least.  Their task is to protect the Phoenix from attack by smaller fighters such as the Viper, while the Phoenix take on the heavier ships.  The Firebird is slower than the Viper, but not by enough to give the Viper a decisive edge.  Battles between the two often come down to individual skill.  Many a Federation/Auroran border skirmish has come to a halt while the two sides watch a Firebird/Viper dogfight between renowned pilots{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       5Phoenix bays are noisy, smelly and generally fairly grimy.  If you can put up with this, you'll have some serious mobile firepower at your disposal, as the bay is capable of housing up to three of these vicious little fighters{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       5Phoenix bays are noisy, smelly and generally fairly grimy.  If you can put up with this, you'll have some serious mobile firepower at your disposal, as the bay is capable of housing up to three of these vicious little fighters{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       üThe Phoenix is yet another example of the Auroran will to survive.  The Phoenix is slow and turns badly.  One would think that it would be target practice for enemy pilots.  It is, but it has one redeeming feature: it has almost as good armor plating as a Thunderhead.  They plough through fire corridors with impunity, and attack in groups to maximize firepower.  The Phoenix can wear a missile from an Anaconda, but a Viper will stay on its tail and pound it mercilessly.  Suffice to say that Phoenix pilots suffer the greatest rate of attrition of any group in the Auroran armed forces{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       üThe Phoenix is yet another example of the Auroran will to survive.  The Phoenix is slow and turns badly.  One would think that it would be target practice for enemy pilots.  It is, but it has one redeeming feature: it has almost as good armor plating as a Thunderhead.  They plough through fire corridors with impunity, and attack in groups to maximize firepower.  The Phoenix can wear a missile from an Anaconda, but a Viper will stay on its tail and pound it mercilessly.  Suffice to say that Phoenix pilots suffer the greatest rate of attrition of any group in the Auroran armed forces{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       ÙPirates know about violence, and the threat of violence.  They also know about hounding individual ships in packs.  However, they also value speed, and the Pirate Viper Bay launches them far faster than any other type of bay outside of Polaris Space, allowing them to swarm over their foes with frightening rapidity.  So despite only being able to house a maximum of two Pirate Vipers, many pirates vessels have at least one.  With one of these bays on board, you'll have a fast pack at your disposal at all times{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       ÙPirates know about violence, and the threat of violence.  They also know about hounding individual ships in packs.  However, they also value speed, and the Pirate Viper Bay launches them far faster than any other type of bay outside of Polaris Space, allowing them to swarm over their foes with frightening rapidity.  So despite only being able to house a maximum of two Pirate Vipers, many pirates vessels have at least one.  With one of these bays on board, you'll have a fast pack at your disposal at all times{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       …As soon as Comara released the Viper frame on the general market, a few shiploads of frames were bought up by notorious pirate shipwright Olaf Greyshoulders.  He and his crew have totally refitted the shell, and the familiar shape of its advanced armor plating hides a wealth of minor and major improvements to the basic idea.  But, as with all Greyshoulders upgrades, there is a hefty price to pay for the improved model.  It's up to you to decide whether it's worth it{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       …As soon as Comara released the Viper frame on the general market, a few shiploads of frames were bought up by notorious pirate shipwright Olaf Greyshoulders.  He and his crew have totally refitted the shell, and the familiar shape of its advanced armor plating hides a wealth of minor and major improvements to the basic idea.  But, as with all Greyshoulders upgrades, there is a hefty price to pay for the improved model.  It's up to you to decide whether it's worth it{P30"." ".REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}{b424 "You stare at this item, and the others around it, for several long, sad moments, knowing that you may never be able to buy any of them ever again." ""}                                       õMr. Donald Chick and his engineers have spent years trying to adapt the enormous fighter bays so that they can be fitted into the relatively small ships that the Rebels have managed to get their hands on.  With it, you will be able to hold and launch up to four of the upgraded Rebel Vipers.  As far as adaptive engineering solutions go, this one certainly stands up well...                                       õMr. Donald Chick and his engineers have spent years trying to adapt the enormous fighter bays so that they can be fitted into the relatively small ships that the Rebels have managed to get their hands on.  With it, you will be able to hold and launch up to four of the upgraded Rebel Vipers.  As far as adaptive engineering solutions go, this one certainly stands up well...                                       õMr. Donald Chick and his engineers have spent years trying to adapt the enormous fighter bays so that they can be fitted into the relatively small ships that the Rebels have managed to get their hands on.  With it, you will be able to hold and launch up to four of the upgraded Rebel Vipers.  As far as adaptive engineering solutions go, this one certainly stands up well...                                       êWhen General (ret) Cade 'Sundown' Smart defected to the Rebellion, he brought with him plans for all Federation vessels, and also intelligence on many ships used by other governments.  With this in hand, Donald Chick and his engineers set to work building and upgrading existing ships.  The resulting variant of the Viper is virtually unmatched anywhere in space.                                       êWhen General (ret) Cade 'Sundown' Smart defected to the Rebellion, he brought with him plans for all Federation vessels, and also intelligence on many ships used by other governments.  With this in hand, Donald Chick and his engineers set to work building and upgrading existing ships.  The resulting variant of the Viper is virtually unmatched anywhere in space.                                       êWhen General (ret) Cade 'Sundown' Smart defected to the Rebellion, he brought with him plans for all Federation vessels, and also intelligence on many ships used by other governments.  With this in hand, Donald Chick and his engineers set to work building and upgrading existing ships.  The resulting variant of the Viper is virtually unmatched anywhere in space.                                       PA few days is all it takes to convert sections of your ship into a launchbay for Viper fighters.  The conversion comes complete with everything you'll need to refuel, re-arm and service a maximum force of four Vipers.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       PA few days is all it takes to convert sections of your ship into a launchbay for Viper fighters.  The conversion comes complete with everything you'll need to refuel, re-arm and service a maximum force of four Vipers.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                        ÛAnacondas can provide long-range intercept capability for a vessel.  This bay allows you to outfit a maximum of two of them.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                        ÛAnacondas can provide long-range intercept capability for a vessel.  This bay allows you to outfit a maximum of two of them.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       YWith the rapid development of space flight, it was inevitable that sports (particularly racing) would come to fruition sooner rather than later.  Power Sled racing stood up to the challenge.  A few intrepid hot-rodders noticed that one particular sled, the Viper, took very well to a bit of extra weight in the form of armor and armament.  With a little engine tweaking, these modified Vipers, designated F-23, were selected by the Federation as the mainstay of their fighter wings.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       YWith the rapid development of space flight, it was inevitable that sports (particularly racing) would come to fruition sooner rather than later.  Power Sled racing stood up to the challenge.  A few intrepid hot-rodders noticed that one particular sled, the Viper, took very well to a bit of extra weight in the form of armor and armament.  With a little engine tweaking, these modified Vipers, designated F-23, were selected by the Federation as the mainstay of their fighter wings.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       _The main problem with the Viper as a fighter craft is a complete lack of any form of explosive projectile.  A new variant that has the 'long distance kill' capacity, based on the Viper chassis, has been the Federation's choice of Space Superiority Fighter ever since.  Although this ship, named the Anaconda, suffers from a slightly slower acceleration and top speed than the Viper, its ability to destroy enemy fighters before that fighter can get within gun range more than compensates.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       _The main problem with the Viper as a fighter craft is a complete lack of any form of explosive projectile.  A new variant that has the 'long distance kill' capacity, based on the Viper chassis, has been the Federation's choice of Space Superiority Fighter ever since.  Although this ship, named the Anaconda, suffers from a slightly slower acceleration and top speed than the Viper, its ability to destroy enemy fighters before that fighter can get within gun range more than compensates.Requires: Fighter Bay {P30"License" "License, REQUIRES YOU TO REGISTER EV NOVA"}                                       The still toxic atmosphere whips past the visor of your biosuit as you clamber over rocks of silicates and metals made slippery by the recently introduced blue-green algae.  You seriously hope you don't accidentally puncture your suit.                                       éWhilst the air remains unbreathable, the planet before you is starting, with its blue-green algae and small amounts of plant life near the equator, you can almost feel the planet coming alive.  Nonetheless, you are still glad to be wearing your bio-suit when you check out the toxic levels of chlorine that still make up a significant portion of the atmosphere.                                       With the efforts of David Rengel and his team of terraformers, UHP-1002 has been transformed into a paradise planet with sweeping oceans surrounding a few major continents and sprawling archipelagos.  It has vast mountain ranges and is covered by enormous untouched forests.  While the atmosphere is still a little thin, and you find yourself gasping for air without much exertion, it is a joy to be able to run around without having to use any environmental gear on this pristine world.                                        êPlaceholder text to prevent error from appearing on start-up. This description is never seen by the player.                                             
="# >"@ 
<'!(U ,'&( 
$'z* ('*! 
ÿ Wraith ChangeTerraforming StartTerraforming misn Terraforming misn Terraforming misn Terraforming misn Terraforming misn Terraforming misn Terraforming misn Polaris Cloaking Device v1.0 olaris Cloaking Device v1.0.1 olaris Recombination crön olaris Cloaking Device v1.1 olaris Cloaking Device v1.1.1 olaris Cloaking Device v1.1.2 olaris Cloaking Device v1.1.3 olaris Cloaking Device v2.0 olaris Cloak general v1.0 olaris Cloak general v1.1 olaris Cloak general v1.1.1 olaris Cloak general v1.1.2 olaris Fast-Jump olaris Fast-Jump2 olaris Multi-JumpPolaris Cloak WeaponsNon-Polaris start variantRebel Hypergate AvailabilityRebel Hypergate Close-DownAuroran Drop Bear Mating SeasonChrome Valk UpgradeRebel Cloaking Device$Rebel Cloak - success (mass produce)!Rebel Cloak - fail (mass produce)"Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 1 Neirt&Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 1.1 Gateway$Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 1.2 Vemap&Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 1.3 Alphara0Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 1.4 Alphara & Gateway!Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 2 Unin&Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 2.1 SPC-050$Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 2.2 Xante-Common Aur/Fed Syst Change 2.3 SPC-050 & Unin)Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 1 Tichel or UroaRare Aur/Fed Syst Change Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 1.2!Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 2 WittorRare Aur/Fed Syst Change 3 AriaRare Aur/Fed Syst Change 4 Sale Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 5 Creyt!Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 6 DerlicRare Aur/Fed Syst Change 7 Biri$Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 8 Narcissus Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 9 Spica!V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 1 Hope!V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 2 Inci'V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 3 Heraan Cov$V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 4 SPC-034$V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 5 Kerella%V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 6 SPC-1367 V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 7 Sol+V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 8 Nesre Secundus'V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 9 Formalhaut#V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 10 Kania%V Rare Aur/Fed Syst Change 11 Lalande"Reb/Fed Syst Change 1 Nesre PrimusReb/Fed Syst Change 1 AldebaranRAGE Gunboat Appearance cronFed Dominate cronFed Dead cronReb Dominate cronReb Dead cronPol Dominate cronPol Dead cronAur Dominate cronAur Dead cronPir Dominate cronPir Dead cronW/Gse Dominate cronW/Gse D cronDominate cronDominate cronBrass Improvement cron Brass Improvement cron Brass Loses Ground cronBH Intro availabilityNew Ireland re-habitation crön horium Reactor knock-off ission Reactor knock-off arbon Fibre knock-off arbon Fibre knock-off arbon Fibre knock-off ew Ireland Restore cron New Ireland Restore cron 1.Pirate Storyline Penultimate missionbit change"Pirate Off-Shoot outf availabilityBeat On Skinny cron"Pirate Off-Shoot outf availability#Final Pirate Off-shoot availability*All Dampener and Repair Droid AvailabilityVell-os Area Map cronMenin Rebuild cronThunderforge Availability cronThunderforge Appearance cronRebel Dragon + outfs cron$Avoid too many starting misns cron 1!UN Shipping Intro non-persistance#Re-offer 'Launch Exploration Probe'#First Auroran mission second chance&Dechtakar Service Re-Availability cronGeneric misn delay cronAdvanced Pirate newsNews: Pack disrupts shippingNews: Auroran ChampionNews: Player Heraan ThurokiirNews: Player Auroran ThurokiirNews: Rebs Liaise with PolsNews: Feds Destroy RebsNews: Assassinating Pol LeaderNews: Feds Beat Pols*News: Player discovers way to free ews: Rebs beat Feds%News: Player Defeats Bad Pirate FleetRe-land on Merrol cronSigma Shipyards 3 cronSigma Shipyards 4 cron
Earth/Luna
Reflex-ion UHP-0164 pacedock New Babylon UHP-0474Spacedock III	Port KaneNew EnglandNew Ireland	Las VegasNeo New YorkSpacedock HargenXSirius Prime	Sirius DivaSimpsonMeninSpacedock V	Tau PrimeTau Spacedock TrusaSirrusaVikingMEuropaPyrogenesis Altia SnowmeltGFermiaBoral HavenMerrolSpica UHP-1001 UHP-1002 eorgiaNesre Secundus IV SyracuseTidalSkye	LodestonePSpacedock I	GreenwichChronos	HourglassThraineThrorLRautherOutcastHelenRHonorHearth SerenityMairimKinikéKolanKismetHerald MoonviewNotas	Dunroamin	Rigel Misfire KerenskyGineiaBrassCodecGLi-Tech-niaGoliath CornwallVrennaNil'a Mjolnir Nil'a He Nil'a Nil'ar NinaP'a He Nil'a Tre'ar ZalomTre'ar Aeberl Tre'a HeTre'ar IlliniNil'ar KemoryaZre'ar HelonisZ'precti He	K'ar KasiPTre'ar TescheschVer'ar Shan
Ver'ar Sho Tre'a SeTre'ar VilarnAr'Bis RoutakAr'Bis ValaloVer'ar PisedAr'Za IusiaVer'ar NorioutTre'ar Aljo	Kel'ar Iy Nil'a CaNil'ar NaradaKel'ar HeperAr'Bis UsocaAre'ar Pira Tre'a Tre'ar VanoNil'ar Peset Nil'a Do
Mu'ar Haro Ver'a Ver'ar Roqu Ver'a Tre'ar PetakTre'ar Varia Tre'a P'a Ro Tre'a Do
Ar'za Diti
Kel'ar Nil'ar Riai Nil'a Vi Ver'ar Plas Ver'a Tre'ar Erma Tre'a Vi Nil'a Nil'ar Leir Nil'a CunjoArabusHolpa StationCibella
Cunja LoffNibos PrimeAgrippa	FortitudeRomuleNickasTekel Supply Station Fallen
ResilienceGladiusGladius ShipyardsTekel	KymonthiaKymonth StationKEguitNeilha Memorial Station	HouselessTuralisDani Listening Post ValoriaSchmooDani - EnduranceOrmondDani ForticusForticus ShipyardsPaleinTeron
DedicationATekel Listening PostAuroran Listening Post AriaRimertaAuroran Listening Post SorvadAuroraPhilarPholarImperial ArchivesOAuroran Listening Post Lixos
Water MoonAuroran Listening Post Auroran Listening Post HabilisHeraan Listening Post - EyeyaHeraan Listening Post - HeronLobosHeraan Listening Post - Heraan	DominanceTranquility
Resilience	Fetumschk MortoschTrenelSiberiaHeraan
ResolutionLatinEtrusca	DauntlessHeraan Listening Post - ArikMoash Listening Post MickleGinka	AlertnessHeraan Listening Post - IrzeGechtMoash Listening Post FeretAEkranAlala PrimeStlap
CourageousMoashAirforHeraan - EnduranceMoash Listening Post III	GungungunMoash Listening Post Moash Listening Post AradoVardothVella Listening Post Vella Listening Post RedheadPand	Firebrand
Adek LoralAuroran Listening Post VI
DisciplineVella Listening Post VellaJoccikaJocciaRetsim	BolshevikDVella Listening Post IV	LlyrithraKorellVellosS-016a PipelineEight LuminaryK-003d ebel I Our Spiel Rebel HarborHel'A'ForiusHot'A'Tanius Nivay VI
Earth/LunaMPholarEuropaSimpsonHeraan
ResolutionMerrol Rebel Rebel I Nil'a MoashSpacedock AuroraPhilarTekelDHeraanVella
ResolutionMoashNil'ar LeirTre'ar ZalomVrennaNil'a Mjolnir Nil'a He Nil'a Nil'ar Nina Nil'a Nil'ar Kemorya Nil'a CaNil'ar NaradaNil'ar Peset Nil'a Nil'ar Riai Nil'a Vi Nil'a Nil'ar Leir Nil'a VellosKorellAr'Za IusiaAOry'hara rassNBrassNew IrelandNew IrelandNew IrelandWittor PrimeMeninAntariaBrassNova
IR MissileNirvanaLight Blaster	LB Turret	MB Turret	HB Turret
QLB TurretIRM LauncherRM LauncherRadar Missile	GM launchGrav missileEW launcher
EW Missile	Raven Raven RocketRaven TurretStellar Grenade LauncherStellar GrenadePolaron CannonIon Particle CannonFPC
FPC TurretWraith Cannon WraithiiCapacitor Pulse LaserBioRelay LaserPolaron Torpedo TubePolaron Torpedo	Viper ViperAnaconda Bay AnacondaFirebird Bay FirebirdPhoenix PhoenixThunderhead Thunderhead	Manta MantaHail ChaingunChaingun AmmunitionRailgun (100mm) ailgun (150mm) ailgun (200mm) urreted Railgun (100mm) MP TorpedoFusion ReactorThorium ReactorFission ReactorCarbon FiberMatrix SteelTitanium LatticeSpun DiamondGravimetric SensorsIFF DecoderAuto-recharger
Auto-eject
Escape Cargo ExpansionMass ExpansionCargo RetoolMass RetoolShield RechargerOrganic ShieldShield BufferShield OrganellesAfterburnerPort & Polish	OverdriveVectored ThrustAlluvial DamperHorizontal BoosterSensor BoostMT5 StrengthT4 StrengthT3 StrengthCargo RetoolT2 StrengthMass RetoolSensor BoostSensor BoostSensor BoostStorm ChaingunFusion Pulse TurretThunderhead LancePirate Viper Pirate ViperTurreted BioRelay LaserFlower Of SpringSummer BloomAutumn PetalWinter TempestCreate DartDMarine PlatoonSolar PanelNanitesSolar LanceWGB WGB WGB Rebel Cloaking Device - legalMatter/Anti-Matter ReactorFuel TransferMCivilian IR JammerCivilian Radar JammerMilitary IR JammerMilitary Radar JammerAuroran IR JammerAuroran Radar JammerPolaris JammerNil'kemorya JammerRebel IR JammerRebel Radar JammerPirate JammerDistract SensorsRebel Radar JammerVell-os Area Physical SenseHostility SenseWraith Cannon WraithiiBattery PackHeavy Weapons LicenseMissile Weapons LicenseFighter Bay LicenseProtective Technologies LicenseThorium Reactor - IonizationIon DissipatorCapital Ships LicenseCapital Warships LicenseExotic Ships & Weapons LicenseWraith Cloaking DeviceWraith Fast JumpCloaking Organ - Pol v1.0 loaking Organ - Pol v1.0 steroid Mining LaserAsteroid ScoopDr. Ralph's Exploration Tunnelling OrganTunnelling OrganMulti-Jump OrganPolaron Multi-Torpedo TubePolaron Multi-TorpedoWraith Cannon WraithiiPolaron Torpedo TubePolaron TorpedoPolaron Multi-Torpedo TubePolaron Multi-TorpedoPirate Thunderhead Pirate ThunderheadRebel Viper Rebel ViperChrome Valk UpgradeRebel Starbridge UpgradeRebel Valkyrie UpgradePirate Starbridge UpgradePirate Valkyrie UpgradeDrop Bear RepellantMedium Blaster	MB Turret	HB Turret
QLB TurretIRM Launcher
IR MissileRM LauncherRadar MissileDisabling FPC TurretDisabling RM LauncherDisabling Radar Missile!User Modified Ion Particle CannonIon Particle CannonWraith Cannon WraithiiRebel Cloaking Device - illegalBureau Bomb Outfit Called DescThorium ReactorFission ReactorCarbon FiberMilitary IR JammerMilitary Radar JammerExotic Ships & Weapons LicenseExotic Ships & Weapons LicenseThorium Reactor - bombFission Reactor - disabledCarbon Fiber - disabledCarbon Fiber - disabledCarbon Fiber - degradedMHellhound Missile LauncherHellhound MissileArmor Repair DroidsLight CannonExotic Ships & Weapons LicenseTransmission JammerIFF Projector - FederationIFF Projector - MoashBars: Earth	Port KaneSpacedock New BabylonSpacedock III	Port KaneNew EnglandNew Ireland	Las VegasSpacedock HargenXSirius Prime	Sirius DivaSimpsonMeninSpacedock V	Tau PrimeTau Spacedock TrusaSirrusaVikingMarsPyrogenesis Altia SnowmeltGBoral HavenMerrolGeorgia SiracuseTidalSkye	LodestoneFBS I	GreenwichThraineRautherHelenRHonorHearth SerenityKinikéKolanKismetHerald MoonviewNotas	Dunroamin	Rigel Misfire KerenskyGineiaBrassCodecGLi-Tech-niaGoliath CornwallTre'ar ZalomTre'ar Aeberl Tre'a HeTre'ar IlliniTre'ar Helonis	K'ar KasiTre'ar TescheschVer'ar Shan Tre'a SeTre'ar VilarnVer'ar PisedVer'ar Noriout	Kel'ar Iy Nil'a Kel'ar HeperAre'ar Pira	Tre'ar Tre'ar Vano
Mu'ar Haro Ver'a Ver'ar Roqu Ver'a Tre'ar PetakTre'ar Varia Tre'a P'a Ro Tre'a Do
Kel'ar Fel Ver'ar Plas Ver'a Tre'ar Erma Tre'a CunjoArabusNibos Prime	FortitudeRomuleNickasTekel Supply Station Fallen
ResilienceGladiusGladius ShipyardsTekelKymonth StationEguitNeilha Memorial Station	HouselessSchmoo	EnduranceOrmondDani ForticusForticus ShipyardsPaleinTeron
DedicationAAriaRimertaSorvadAuroraImperial ArchivesOLixos
Water MoonHabilisLobos	Dominance Serenity
Resilience	FetumschkTrenelSiberiaHeraan
ResolutionLatinEtrusca	DauntlessMickleGinka	AlertnessFeretAAlala PrimeStlap
CourageousMoashAirfor	EnduranceVardothRedheadPand	Firebrand
Adek Loral
DisciplineVellaJoccikaJocciaRetsim	BolshevikDSothEightRebel I	Our Spiel Rebel HarborBars: EarthMSimpsonHeraan
ResolutionMerrol Rebel Rebel MoashSpacedock AuroraMoashTre'ar Zalom Nil'a BrassNNew IrelandNew IrelandAntariaNirvanaEMP Torpedo TubeFed Cloaking DeviceSigma Engine Tune-up igma Electrical RewiringSigma Mount ReinforcementBrassNova
TripHammerT1 StrengthT0 StrengthMedium BlasterSigma Mass ExpansionSigma Mass AdditionKrypt Mind AttackFirebird Firebird Bay Firebird FirebirdPhoenix Phoenix PhoenixPhoenixPirate Viper Pirate Viper Pirate ViperPirate ViperRebel Viper Rebel Viper Rebel Viper Rebel ViperRebel ViperRebel Viper	Viper bay	Viper Anaconda Anaconda ViperViper Anaconda Anaconda UHP-1002 UHP-1002 UHP-1002 rea Map - 